GOOD EVENING
EVERYONE AND WELCOME TO THE
JUNE 21ST MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU&apos;RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
, I PLEDGE
ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA FOR
WHICH IT STANDS ONE NATION
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR OUR CLARK.
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNCIL
MEMBER HAYNER ABSENT COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH HERE FOR YOUR
ULTIMATE SONG ABSENT COUNCIL
MEMBER GRANT COUNCIL MEMBER A
DENHA HERE MAYOR TAYLOR HERE
COUNCIL MEMBER EITHER HERE OR
NELSON HERE FORMER BRIGGS YOUR
HUSBAND MALONE PRESIDENT.
WE HAVE A QUORUM.
WE HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA THROUGH BY
COUNCIL MEMBER, SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER.
OUR DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA
WILL FAVOR POSED.
THE AGENDA IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE THE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR.
MM.
THANK YOU.
WE HAVE AN ABSENCE
OF INTRODUCTIONS AND SO WE MOVE
STRAIGHT INTO PUBLIC COMMENT,
PUBLIC COMMENT, RESERVE TIME
PUBLIC COMMENT, RESERVE TIME IS
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL ON THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST
TO SPEAK OF PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME ONE NEEDS TO HAVE
SIGNED UP WITH OUR CITY CLERK
IN ADVANCE SPEAKERS OF PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO WHETHER HERE OR AT HOME,
PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION TO
THE TIME CLOCK HERE IN CHAMBERS
YOU&apos;LL BE NOTIFIED WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED.
I THE THE THE LIGHTS ON THE
PHONE.
OUR CLERK WILL NOTIFY YOU WHEN
YOUR TIME IS DONE IN IN EITHER
CASE WHEN YOUR TIME IS YOUNG
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS PETE
SKOLER.
GOOD EVENING.
THANK YOU MR. AND COUNCIL
MEMBERS MY NAME IS PETER
SCHNELLER.
I AM THE OWNER OF THE PHANTOM
COMPANY LOCATED IN BRIGHTON,
MICHIGAN.
AND MAY 5TH TWENTY TWENTY THE
CITY ACCEPTED BIDS FOR THE
RECONSTRUCTION OF THE
INSTALLATION OF STORM SEWER
FIRE HYDRANTS AND
RECONSTRUCTION OF PAVING ON
GATTI&apos;S DRIVE HERE ON PARKWAY
AND TOBOGGAN PARKWAY I PREPARED
A SHEET THAT I GOT TO GIVE EACH
MEMBER OF THE COUNCIL INCLUDING
THE MAYOR THAT SHOWS THE PAST
HISTORY THAT THE FINANCING
COMPANY HAS DONE FOR THE CITY
OF INABA.
MOST OF THESE JOBS HAD BEEN THE
PRIME CONTRACTOR IN THIS
PARTICULAR PROJECT AND HERE ON
GATTI&apos;S WE READ LOW BUT DUE TO
SOME ANALYSIS THAT THE CITY
PERFORMS WE ARE DEEMED NOT A
LITTLE BETTER AND THEY INTEND
TO AWARD TO AJAX PAINTING
INDUSTRIES.
AND I JUST WONDER, YOU KNOW, AT
WHAT POINT DOES THE CITY DECIDE
ENOUGH IS ENOUGH AS FAR IS NOT
ACCORDING TO THE LITTLE BIDDER
THE CITY AT THIS POINT FRANCIS
ON FOUR HUNDRED AND THIRTY
SEVEN THOUSAND DOLLARS OR
ALMOST 12 PERCENT MORE THAN MY
BID AND I&apos;VE DONE LOTS
OF PROJECTS IN THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR.
YOU KNOW WHAT AT WHAT POINT IS
THE CITY SAY ENOUGH IS ENOUGH?
FOR EXAMPLE, TODAY I&apos;M DOING A
JOB ON SOUTH STATE STREET FOR
SIX POINT SEVEN MILLION
DOLLARS.
I DIDN&apos;T KNOW IT BUT I HAPPENED
TO BE THE ONLY BIDDER ON THE
PROJECT HAD NOT BID IT.
YOU WOULDN&apos;T HAVE HAD ANY
BIDDERS IF I&apos;M NOT GOING TO
HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO BE
AWARDED A JOB THAT I&apos;M LOW ON,
I SAY TO MYSELF WHAT&apos;S THE
SENSE IN SPENDING TIME AND
ENGINEERING TO BUILD THESE
PROJECTS?
I, I MEAN I WONDER IF SOMEBODY
FROM THE ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
HAS ANY COMMENTS WHETHER WE&apos;RE
POOR PERFORMERS OR GOOD
CITIZENS TO THE CITY
DO NOT ASK
ANY QUESTIONS.
THIS IS THIS IS A TIME TO
RECEIVE PUBLIC COMMENT, SIR.
IT&apos;S NOT A TALKER FOR DIALOG.
ALL RIGHT.
CAN I PROVIDE THIS DOCUMENT TO
EACH MEMBER OF THE COUNCIL?
ABSOLUTELY.
THE PROTOCOL IS TO HAND IT ON
TO THE CLERK WHEN YOU&apos;RE
COMPLETED NOTICE THE PROTOCOL
IS TO HAND IT TO THE CLERK.
THE GENTLEMAN OVER ON THE ON
THE END IN THE BLACK.
THANK YOU.
BLESS YOU, BEN.
THANK YOU
.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DAVID KEENE
TO THE CLERK TO PLEASE MR.
MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
MY NAME IS DAVID.
MY WIFE PAM AND I HAVE BEEN
OPERATING A LICENSED HOME CARE
IN ANN ARBOR FOR THE PAST EIGHT
YEARS SINCE FEBRUARY
WE&apos;VE BEEN
WORKING ON OPENING ANOTHER
DAYCARE CENTER DUE TO DELAYS IN
THE ZONING YOU PROCESS.
THAT CENTER IS STILL NOT OPEN.
QUALITY CHILD CARE IS VITAL TO
BOTH OUR ECONOMY AND THE
WELL-BEING OF YOUNG FAMILIES.
IT&apos;S WELL DOCUMENTED THAT
THERE&apos;S A CHILD CARE CRISIS.
WE HAVE TURNED FAMILIES AWAY
BECAUSE WE CAPACITY AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE PANDEMIC THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT ACTED
QUICKLY TO MAKE GRANTS
AVAILABLE TO HELP CHILD CARE
CENTERS STAY OPEN CURRENTLY IS
RELAXING ITS RULES SO MORE
CAREGIVERS CAN BE HIRED AT THE
CITY LEVEL.
MORE NEEDS TO BE DONE TO MEET
THE NEEDS OF YOUNG FAMILIES
RIGHT NOW ZONING APPROVAL HAS
TURNED INTO THE MOST EXPENSIVE,
TIME CONSUMING AND STRESSFUL
PART OF THE LICENSING PROCESS.
IT HAS BEEN FOUR LONG MONTHS.
WE&apos;VE LOST MORE THAN SIXTY FIVE
THOUSAND DOLLARS OF OUR OWN
FUNDS DUE TO DELAYS.
THERE SHOULD NOT BE HAPPENING
TO PEOPLE WHO ARE TRYING TO
PROVIDE A MUCH NEEDED SERVICE
TO THE COMMUNITY.
SOME OF THE OBSTACLES WE&apos;VE
ENCOUNTERED OUR INITIAL ATTEMPT
TO APPLY FOR ZONING APPROVAL
WAS ROUTED TO THE BUILDING
DEPARTMENT.
THE AUTOMATED RESPONSE FROM THE
BUILDING DEPARTMENT READS
PLEASE AVOID CALLING OFFICE FOR
STATUS UPDATES.
APPLICATIONS WILL BE PROCESSED
IN THE ORDER RECEIVED.
THIS GAVE US A FALSE SENSE
OF REASSURANCE WHEN ACTUALLY
NOTHING IS HAPPENING.
WE HAD NOT CALLED AFTER TWO
MONTHS THE APPLICATION MIGHT
STILL BE SITTING THERE.
WE DID NOT GET ANY HELPFUL
GUIDANCE UNTIL LATE APRIL.
IT ALL STARTS WITH BUYING THE
PROPERTY.
THERE NEEDS TO BE A WAY TO
QUICKLY DETERMINE WHETHER
ZONING APPROVAL IS POSSIBLE
PRIOR TO TAKING THE MORTGAGE IN
TODAY&apos;S REAL ESTATE CLIMATE
DECISIONS MUST BE MADE WITHIN
HOURS OR THE PROPERTY WILL BE
SOLD TO ANOTHER BUYER.
THERE&apos;S NO PREDICTABILITY WITH
THE ZONING APPROVAL PROCESS.
THE CURRENT REALITY IS THAT A
BUSINESS DOES NOT KNOW WHEN IT
WILL BE ABLE TO OPEN.
CLIENTS WILL GO ELSEWHERE WHEN
THEY ARE TOLD WE MIGHT BE OPEN
IN SIX MONTHS.
THE PROCESS NEEDS TO
ACCOMMODATE VERY DIFFERENT
BUSINESSES WE ARE NOT LARGE
DEVELOPERS WITH DEEP POCKETS
EACH MONTH OF DELAY WITH OUR
REVENUE COSTS US MORE THAN
THREE THOUSAND DOLLARS AGAINST
THE ALREADY VERY SLIM PROFIT
MARGINS.
THE COSTLY SURVEY REQUIRED
SEEMS UNNECESSARY AND WE DO
BELIEVE WE HAVE ENOUGH OFF
STREET PARKING FOR OUR STAFF.
THE REGULATIONS SURROUNDING
ZONING ARE NOT INTUITIVE AND
CONTAIN A LOT JARGON.
IN FACT WE ARE CONCERNED ABOUT
DOING THE WRONG THING AND
FURTHER DELAYING THE PROCESS.
I WOULD LIKE TO BELIEVE THAT AS
ELECTED OFFICIALS YOU PLACE A
HIGH VALUE ON THE WELL-BEING
OF YOUNG FAMILIES IN ANN ARBOR.
PLEASE FOCUS ON WHAT REALLY
MATTERS AND NECESSARILY BECAUSE
OF THE THREE MINUTE LIMIT I
LEFT OUT A LOT OF DETAIL WANTS
TO HAND OUT THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KEN LAND.
OK, MY NAME IS KEN LAND.
I THINK I SPOKE TO COUNCIL
MAYBE NINETEEN NINETY OVER A
REAL ESTATE ISSUE SO THANK YOU
FOR LETTING MY VOICE BE HEARD
SIR.
I&apos;M SORRY CAN YOU BRING YOUR
MASCOTTE PLEASE.
CAN YOU BRING YOUR MASCOTTE
PLEASE.
MY APOLOGIES.
COULD I BRING YOUR MASCOTTE
PLEASE.
THANK YOU.
OK ARE BOTH OF THESE
MICROPHONES THE CENTER ONE IS
THE PROPER ONE THIS ONE HERE.
YES OK CAN YOU HEAR ME OK.
YOU BET WE CAN BUT GOT A POP
QUIZ FOR EVERYBODY HERE OK WITH
IT.
MY MISSION IS TO ASK YOU TO
REPEAL ORDINANCE TWENTY ONE AND
TWENTY TWO IT&apos;S HARMFUL TO
EVERYBODY AND THAT IS WHY I&apos;M
HERE IS TO ASK FOR THAT AND SO
PLEASE INDULGE ME I&apos;VE BEEN IN
EVER SINCE NINETEEN SIXTY SEVEN
I WENT TO U OF M AS DID BOTH MY
CHILDREN MY COUSIN MY BROTHER I
OWN FIVE BUILDINGS AND LEASE IN
DOWNTOWN AREA PLUS MY HOME I
EARN MY ENTIRE RETIREMENT
INCOME FROM INCOME PROPERTY
THAT I BUILT UP OVER A LIFETIME
.
THIS ORDINANCE IS HURTING ME
AND THREATENING ME.
I GOT A LITTLE POP QUIZ FOR YOU
HERE DEAR LANDLORD WHO WROTE
THIS DEAR LANDLORD PLEASE DON&apos;T
PUT A PRICE ON MY SOUL.
I&apos;LL EMAIL YOU THE ANSWERS WHO
SAID AND WHERE THE X I WANT
EVERYTHING OK TWENTY PERCENT
OF WHO THINK WHO HAVE TOO MUCH
POWER.
FINALLY IT&apos;S NO SECRET THAT THE
WHO HAVE MORE POWER MORE THAN
THEIR FAIR SHARE OF POWER WHERE
OK I GOT CITATIONS FOR ALL THIS
DEMONIZING A GROUP OF PEOPLE
LANDLORDS AND ORGANIZING A MOB
AGAINST THEM.
IT&apos;S DANGEROUS AND OK THESE
ACTIVITY THOSE ACTIVISTS OF THE
ORDINANCE TWENTY ONE TWENTY TWO
THE DENY ACCESS ORDINANCE THEY
ARE NOT POOR, TIRED HUDDLED
MASSES PROLETARIAT OPPRESSED BY
THE GREEDY CAPITALISTS.
THEY&apos;RE TRANSIENT MOSTLY WHITE
ELITE FUNDED UPPER MIDDLE CLASS
PRIVILEGED INTELLIGENTSIA WHO
HAVE MADE A PRIVILEGED CHOICE
TO GET A HIGHER EDUCATION WHICH
IS AVAILABLE TO A SELECT FEW.
HAD I FORGONE MY U OF M
EDUCATION AND PUT THE MONEY
INSTEAD OF AN INCOME PROPERTY
IN NINETEEN SIXTY SEVEN THIS
WOULD BE WORTH ABOUT SIX
MILLION DOLLARS TODAY.
THAT&apos;S IF I HAD NOT COLLECTED A
PENNY OF RENT AND FIFTY FIVE
YEARS BUT I CHOSE HIGHER
EDUCATION AS DO THESE ACTIVISTS
.
THEY MAY GET A CHOICE AND SEEK
LEGISLATION TO PUT THE PRO IN
PROCRASTINATE.
I HAVE ONE GUY SPECIFICALLY SAY
HE WANTED TO RENEW THE LEASE
BUT WANTED TO WAIT ONE HUNDRED
AND FIFTY DAY PERIOD TO PURSUE
PRESERVE HIS RIGHTS.
HE WAS CAPABLE OF MAKING THE
DECISION BUT CHOSE NOT TO.
IN THE MEANTIME, TO THEIR
CHAGRIN I TURNED AWAY PEOPLE
WHO WANTED THE APARTMENT BUT
THEY COULDN&apos;T LEASE IT BECAUSE
OF THE ORDINANCE THEIR ACCESS
TO AN APARTMENT WAS DENIED THE
THREE MINUTES IT IS SIR.
THAT&apos;S THREE MINUTES NOT THREE
MINUTES.
THANK YOU.
OK, I&apos;LL EMAIL THE REST OF THE
THANKS FOR LET ME TALK.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ALEX LOWE
ON THE TELEPHONE.
HI THIS IS ALEX CALLING FROM
WARD THREE.
I&apos;D LIKE TO TALK TO YOU FOR A
MOMENT ABOUT CASAVANT THE FLAT
ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROJECT FROM
MY READING OF THE RESOLUTION AS
CURRENTLY WRITTEN, THIS IS NOT
SO MUCH AN IMPROVEMENT AS IT IS
A REFUTATION OF THE PREVIOUS
MISTAKES IT CONSTRUCTED THE
ROAD WHILE I DO BELIEVE IT IS
VERY IMPORTANT THAT FLATBOAT BE
RESURFACED DOING SO WITHOUT
UPDATING IT TO MODERN DESIGN
GUIDELINES WILL SIMPLY MAKE
THIS AREA MORE DANGEROUS FOR
EVERYONE.
I URGE ALL OF YOU TO ENSURE
THAT ATRO RECEIVED DESIGN
UPDATES IN LINE WITH THE CITY&apos;S
FLEET STREET AND VISION ZERO
COMMITMENTS.
THIS INCLUDES MODIFICATION SUCH
AS BUFFER PROTECTED BY EXPANDS
PROVIDING LIGHTS FOR THE
PEDESTRIAN CROSSINGS AND
HOPEFULLY AT LEAST ONE MORE
PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
MANY USERS OF THE SECTION
OF THAT DO NOT DO SO BY MEANS
OTHER THAN A CAR AND DOING SO
IS WHAT I AND MY COWORKERS IN
THE SOFTWARE ENGINEERING WORLD
WOULD CALL A POOR USER
EXPERIENCE NARROW CRACKED
SIDEWALKS, THE COMPLETE LACK
OF BICYCLE INFRASTRUCTURE WHICH
CONNECTS BOTH THE BIKE LANES
NOT NORTH OF THE SECTION
OF THAT TO TO THE BIKE LANES
SOUTH OF SECTION THERE&apos;S JUST
THIS MISS MISSING IS THERE IS
ALSO ONLY ONE PEDESTRIAN
CROSSING THAT IT DOESN&apos;T HAVE
FLASHING BEACONS OR ANYTHING SO
IT IS UNSAFE AT NIGHT AND THE
BUS STOPS ALONE THERE ARE NOT
VERY ACCESSIBLE TO THOSE WITH
THE MOBILITY ISSUES.
THESE ARE SOME OF THE PROBLEMS
THAT NEED TO NEED ADDRESSING.
LET&apos;S NOT COMMIT TO ANOTHER FEW
DECADES OF THIS POOR DESIGN
WHEN WE HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO
FIX THAT.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ELIZABETH
HUNTER
AND AND I HAVE A GENERAL
QUESTION NOW TAKING ON BOARD IS
MAKING AN COUNCIL RESPONSIBLE
FOR ABOUT RIGHT ABOUT ONE HOUR
IT&apos;S ABOUT AND MAKING A
DECISION ON BEHALF
OF CONSTITUENT ABDICATE THE
WORK TO CHANGE YOUR DESK,
TRANSPARENCE THE BIRTH OF A
CONSTITUENT IN CASES WORKING
FOR LOCAL COUNCILS, HAVING
TRANSPARENCY AND PUBLIC
MANAGEMENT.
THANK THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MICHELLE
HUGHES
.
MAYOR MICHELLE HUGHES JUST
DISAPPEARED FROM THE LIST SO
SHE WAS ON THE LIST FOR A BIT
AND THEN SHE&apos;S DROPPED.
YES, SHE DISAPPEARED.
LET&apos;S ASSUME FOR THE TIME BEING
THAT THAT&apos;S A TECHNICAL GLITCH
SHE CALLS BACK IF YOU WOULD
PLEASE LET ME KNOW.
WE&apos;LL PUT HER IN AFTER MISS
PETERSON.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ANN
BANNISTER.
HELLO, THIS IS AMBASSADOR ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER AND YOU MAY
REMEMBER THAT HIS FIRST ACTIONS
AFTER GETTING A COUNCIL
MAJORITY IN TWENTY IN THE
TWENTY TWENTY ELECTION.
WHAT DO WE KNOW CITY COUNCIL IN
RECONFIGURATIONS DECISION
MAKING PROCESS AND WHETHER IT&apos;S
A PARTY TO OUR CITY MAYOR.
IRONICALLY ENOUGH, THIS FACES
OUR CITY UNDER GREATER PRESSURE
AND CRITICISM FROM RESIDENT
WITH INCREASED DECISION MAKING
AUTHORITY AND IT ALSO MAKES
ELECTED OFFICIALS NO LONGER IN
ADDITION TO BE A BUFFER BETWEEN
STAFF AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS.
IT SEEMS UNFAIR TO PLAY UP IN A
POLITICAL TUG OF WAR WITH
RESIDENTS AND TONIGHT VOTE
CONFIGURATION AND CONSTRUCTION
ISSUE RESIDENTS HAVE BEEN
ASKING WHY IS THAT NOT
RECOMMENDING A CONVERSION AND
ROADBED AT THIS TIME GOING FROM
FOUR TO FIVE THE THREE DAYS IN
COMPETITION ADVISING RESIDENTS
WHETHER VOTING IN SECTION NEAR
THE CITY AND THE COUNTY PARK
SHOULD BE DELAYED UNTIL THE
HEAVY EQUIPMENT FOR VIRIDIAN IS
NO LONGER IN THE ROADWAY.
SO I HOPE THAT WILL ORGANIZE
THE CAPITAL OF ROAD
CONSTRUCTION VIRIDIAN UNTIL WE
HAVE RELEVANT COMMENTS ABOUT
THE IMPACT OF THE TRUCK ON THE
PROPOSED NEW ROAD.
I&apos;M CONCERNED THAT I COULD NOT
A PATTERN OF REPEATED
SURRENDERING COUNCIL AUTHORITY
FOR DECISION MAKING AND
DELEGATING AUTHORITY TO CITY
FOR ANOTHER INCLUDE THE REVIEW
BY PLAN AN UPCOMING DECISION
UNTIL WE CAN VALIDATE
CENTRALIZES POWER UNDER
UNATTRACTED MONTRACHET
APPOINTED MEMBERS OF CITY
COMMISSION AWAY FROM WHERE IT
SHOULD BE WHICH IS ON TO THE
ELECTED OFFICIAL MORE READILY
ACCOUNTABLE TO THE PEOPLE.
IT SEEMS UNFAIR TO ME TO STEP
AND REDUCE THE TRANSPARENCY AND
THE RIGHTS OF THE RESIDENT IN
THIS IMPORTANT DECISION WHETHER
IT BE THE ROAD RECONFIGURATION
AND CONSTRUCTION DECISION BY
ROAD DECISION, I HOPE THAT YOU
WILL RECONSIDER DELEGATING SO
MUCH POWER FOR OUR APPROPRIATE
AUTHORITY AND OUR CITY FORM.
THANK YOU.
THANK.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS A MERE
FISCHMAN
.
OH SORRY ABOUT THAT MANY
OF THEM HERE I AM A RENTER AND
THE MEMBER AT UMM I AM HERE
TODAY TO TALK ABOUT RIGHT TO
RENEW ORDINANCE PROPOSAL THAT
AND OUR ALLIES IN ORGANIZED
LABOR AND ON CAMPUS AND INDEED
ACROSS THE CITY HAVE BEEN
WORKING TOWARD THE PIECE
OF LEGISLATION VERY COMMON IN
OTHER STATES AND INDEED WHERE
I&apos;M FROM IN ONTARIO THAT WE DID
FOR HOUSING SECURITY BY
OBLIGATING LANDLORD TO ACT UPON
RENEWAL SERVICES TO COVER THEIR
NEEDS AND SHOULD THEY NOT DO
THAT?
I NEED IT BECAUSE HOUSING IS
INCREDIBLY UNSTABLE FOR RENTERS
TO RENT AND WE&apos;RE OFTEN NOT
GIVEN A CHANCE TO RENEW EVEN
WHEN WE&apos;VE BEEN MOVING
INCREDIBLY, INCREDIBLY TALENTED
AND INCREDIBLY EXPENSIVE IF
ONLY FOR SOMEBODY TO MOVE
WITHOUT GOOD REASON THEY SHOULD
HAVE TO PAY FOR IT.
THAT&apos;S WHY WE&apos;RE ADVOCATING FOR
RIGHT TO RENT.
IT WOULD HELP CLOSE A BIG
LOOPHOLE IN THE EARLY WE THINK
THAT HAS A LONG WAY TO THE
IMPACT OF THAT LEGISLATION.
I KNOW WE&apos;RE PRESSURING TO
RENEW THEIR VISAS BEFORE
THEY&apos;RE READY RIGHT NOW EVEN
WITH THE CHANGE WE&apos;RE GOING TO
GO FOR A LANDLORD TO GO TO THE
CAN ON THE DAY THEY MOVE IN AND
TELL THEM YOU HAVE TO MAKE A
DECISION ABOUT RENEWAL TODAY OR
NOT THAT IS SIMPLY UNACCEPTABLE
.
I&apos;VE GOT TWO STORIES I&apos;D LIKE
TO SHARE THAT TENANT THAT THE
FIRST AND BY THE WAY FOR MR.
LAND IS A TYPICAL IMMIGRANT
COUPLE AT GIVING VERBAL
AGREEMENT BY THE LANDLORD TO
RENEW THE ONLY KICKED OUT
OF YOUR HOME BECAUSE MONEY IS
EVICTION IN ORDER TO MAKE ROOM
FOR AN ILLEGAL.
THAT IS WHY PEOPLE ARE NOT
GETTING RENEWED IN THE ATTEMPT
FOR FREE.
I I WENT I MET WHEN I COLLECTED
PETITION SIGNATURES WOULDN&apos;T I
AUDIT THIS INDIVIDUAL HAD
COMPLAINED TO HIS LANDLORD
ABOUT MELANIE&apos;S APARTMENT WHICH
TURNED OUT TO BE A
CARBON MONOXIDE LEAK BUT THEY
WERE UNHAPPY THAT THE TENANT
WAS CAUSING TROUBLE STANDING UP
FOR HIS RIGHT AND REFUSED TO
RENEW IT FOR THAT REASON THIS
IS PART OF A LARGER PROBLEM IN
OUR TENANTS ARE SCARED TO RAISE
ISSUE FOR REPAIRS THAT THEY ARE
LEGALLY ENTITLED BECAUSE IF YOU
GET THE WRONG SIDE OF YOUR
LANDLORD THEY CAN REFUSE TO
RENEW YOUR LEASE AND KICK YOU
OUT OF YOUR HOME AND NEED
PROTECTION AND NEED IT NOW NOT
SIX MONTHS FROM NOW AFTER THE
LEASING SITE IS NOW GET BEFORE
THE START OF THE TENANT HAPPY
INCREDIBLY URGENTLY NEEDED
PROTECTION AND OTHER OTHER THAN
TO THE YOU HAVE SPENT HUNDREDS
OF HOURS WORKING ON THIS
LEGISLATION WITH CITY COUNCIL
TO DO HEART ATTACK IT QUICKLY
PLEASE LET ME GET BACK TO WORK
ON MY DISSERTATION.
I PLEASE PASS THIS LEGISLATION.
THANK YOU.
THANK.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS REESHA M.
.
HI GOOD EVENING.
CAN YOU HEAR ME?
YES WE CAN.
OK SO I AM A RESIDENT OF WARD
ONE AND I AM APPOINTED AT YOU
AS AND I AM FALLING INTO
SUPPORT FOR THE HARD WORK THAT
TENANTS HAVE BEEN DOING IN OUR
NEIGHBOR TO FORTY FOUR YEAR OLD
LIVING ORDINANCE AMENDMENT
NEEDED I MEAN THERE WERE MANY
DEBATES LAST YEAR WE DON&apos;T
RETREAT BUT THAT IS REQUIRED
BUT ALSO I&apos;D LIKE TO SHOW MY
SUPPORT FOR THE TIME THAT I&apos;VE
ALREADY PUT INTO THE TALKING
WITH THE SEND IN RIGHT TO THE
NEW PROPOSAL.
IT WAS SOMETHING THAT WAS
ALREADY LAST YEAR I SUPPOSE
THIS IS AS THE CALLER BEFORE ME
MENTIONED OR PREVALENT ISSUE
EVEN TODAY DESPITE USING
ORDINANCE TENANTS DON&apos;T HAVE IT
.
THEY&apos;RE NOT GIVEN ENOUGH TIME
TO THINK ABOUT WHETHER THEY ARE
READY TO RENEW THEIR NEEDS.
IT&apos;S I THINK UNREASONABLE TO
EXPECT ORDINANCE TO KNOW WHAT
THEIR PLANS FOR THE BILL WOULD
BE TO GET AHEAD IN THE PAST
SEVEN EVEN NOW.
BUT I TO DO THE THINGS THAT I
COULD DO OTHER THAN THEY DO AND
FOR THE ACTUAL TIMELINE BECAUSE
IT&apos;S NOT BEING FOLLOWED
PROPERLY SO AND THAT&apos;S
CERTAINLY ONE THING AND I CAN
SPEAK FROM MY OWN EXPERIENCE
WHEN I MOVED TO ANN ARBOR MY
LANDLORD DIDN&apos;T EVEN TALK TO ME
ABOUT THIS VERY IMPORTANT MY
SECOND LANDLORD BECAUSE THEY
DID WALK ME TO THE UPDATED
ORDINANCE AND THEY DID FOLLOW
IT AS WELL.
BUT THIS IS NOT THE CASE WITH
ALDERMAN.
WE ARE HEARING THAT THE LEASE
OUT FROM UNDER DURING THAT
TENDED TO BE ABLE TO JOIN
WIGGLERS FOR THEIR OWN
APARTMENTS WELL BEFORE THE
SEVEN MONTH MARK REALLY FEEL
THAT THIS ORDINANCE NEEDS TO BE
STRENGTHENED AND NEEDS TO BE
DONE BEFORE THE NEXT SEASON
BECAUSE WE&apos;VE ALREADY AND WE&apos;RE
SEEING VIOLATIONS IS EXTREMELY
FRUSTRATING.
THESE ARE CONVERSATIONS THAT
ARE HAPPENING IN OTHER CITIES
AS WELL IF I&apos;M NOT MISTAKEN.
PART EVICTION OR A NEW KIND
OF POLICIES EXIST IN CALIFORNIA
ALREADY WE KNOW THAT ORGANIZERS
ARE TALKING ABOUT EVEN IN
CITIES LIKE NEW YORK CITY IN
GENERAL.
SO THIS IS A WIDESPREAD CONCERN
AND IT&apos;S A
VERY IMPORTANT
POLICY AND WE REALLY HOPE THE
CITY CAN WORK WITH US.
WE&apos;VE ALREADY SHARED OUR
PROPOSAL WITH COUNCIL MEMBERS.
WE ARE HEARING THAT CITY
LAWYERS ARE YET TO HAVE A LOOK
AT IT OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
WE REALLY THINK THAT THIS
SHOULD NOT BE DELAYED MORE THAN
IT ALREADY IS.
WE HOPE THAT ALL CITY OFFICIALS
FROM THE CITY COUNCIL, THE
LAWYERS WORK WITH AND GIVE US
THE TIME THAT WE SHARE THE THEN
.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LUCY
PETERSON
.
THANK YOU AGAIN.
HEY, MY NAME IS LUCY ANTONIETTA
.
I&apos;VE BEEN HEARING FROM PEOPLE
LIKE YOU AND EVERYONE
DEMOCRATIZATION AND EASE THE
PRESSURE THAT IS DUE TO THE
RECENT WITH THE VAST MAJORITY
OF LEASES ARE SIGNED RENEWED IN
SEPTEMBER AND OCTOBER WITH CITY
COUNCIL WE WERE ABLE TO PASS A
LAW THAT PROHIBITS EARLY
LEASING WHICH MADE AN IMPORTANT
DIFFERENCE IN A LOT OF RENTERS
LIVES.
THAT IS AT LEAST FOR THOSE WITH
LENDERS WHO CHOSE TO RESPECT
THE LAW FOR MANY OTHERS
ESPECIALLY THOSE RENTING IN
LARGE COMPANIES INCLUDING
MICHIGAN CONSUMER HOUSING AND
UPSURGES TO NAME A FEW OF THE
COMPANIES THAT WERE REALLY
EGREGIOUSLY MOVING AROUND THE
LINE OPPOSING IT.
THEN NOT ONLY DID WE GO TO THE
WALL FOR WAYS AROUND IT THAT
ALSO TOOK THE CHANGE IN THE LAW
AS AN OPPORTUNITY TO MANIPULATE
OR TURN INTO SOMETHING EXTRA
MONEY BY WAY OF APARTMENT
RESERVATION THAT WAS MORE THAN
THE RETALIATED AGAINST THOSE
WHO SET UP FOR THEIR RIGHTS BY
RECRUITING MINWALLA.
WE THINK THAT MADE IT CLEAR TO
THOSE OF US WHO WORKED ON THE
LEGISLATION THAT RENTERS NEED A
RIGHT TO RENEW THEIR DOWNTOWN
CITY COUNCIL THAT IS THE
ORIGINAL LANGUAGE WHICH
INCLUDED A RIGHT TO RENEW WAS
UNREASONABLE THAT DEMONSTRATED
THE URGENT NEED FOR CITIES AND
GETTING TENANTS RIGHT HERE IN
THE CITY AFTER MEETING THAT
WOULD CHARACTERIZE RETALIATORY
RENEWAL AMONG OTHER FORMS
OF RETALIATION.
YOUR PART IT&apos;S TIME FOR CITY
COUNCIL TO LISTEN THE VOICES
OF RENTERS AND THINK I NEED
THREE OR RENTERS WERE
STRUGGLING WITH NONCOMPLIANCE
AND RETALIATION FROM LANDLORDS.
I PERSONALLY REACHED MULTIPLE
CITY COUNCILS AND CITIES FELT
THE DISASTER THAT THEY COULDN&apos;T
DO MUCH BUT THAT ANY CITY
COUNCILOR COULD MOVE MEANT A
LOT TO FIX THE THE ANSWER THAT
I RECEIVED FROM A NUMBER
OF CITY COUNCILORS WHEN I ASKED
ABOUT THAT WITH THAT NAME MORE
WERE WORRIED POSSIBLY VIOLATING
THE ORDINANCE SO THERE WAS
NOTHING WE COULD DO.
IT&apos;S SURPRISING TO ME THAT THIS
IS SEEN AS A SUFFICIENT
RESPONSE WHEN CITY COUNCIL
ITSELF HAS THE POWER TO CHANGE
THE LAW.
SO FAR NONE OF THE CITY
COUNCILS HAVE TAKEN IT UPON TO
MOVE TO CLOSE THE LOOPHOLE THAT
INSTITUTING TO RENEW.
MEANWHILE ON THE RENTERS
ANYTHING WE HAVE INDEPENDENTLY
HIRED A LAWYER TO WRITE LEGALLY
DEFENSIBLE AND WE&apos;VE DONE OUR
THE RESEARCH ON RENTERS ISSUES
BY GOING DOOR TO DOOR ACROSS
THE CITY AND WE WILL GATHERED
SUPPORT FROM HUNDREDS
OF RENTERS STRUGGLING.
EVERY SINGLE RENTER WE&apos;VE
SPOKEN TO HAS SUPPORTED THIS
IDEA, SOME EVEN IN TEARS
BECAUSE OF HOW BADLY THEY WOULD
LIKE THE THE NEGATIVE THINGS
LIKE ALL THE APARTMENTS BEFORE
TOO LONG.
AND INACTION ON THIS ISSUE THEN
CAN ALSO SEND A CERTAIN MESSAGE
THAT THE PRIORITY THE RENTERS
AS WE UNDERSTAND THEM BASED ON
OUR LIVES EXPERIENCE
EXPERIENCES ARE LITTLE COMPARED
TO THE CITY COUNCIL IN OUR
RENTERS, THEIR REPRESENTATIVES
WHO CARE ENOUGH TO LEARN ABOUT
OUR ISSUES AND WHO WILL BE
PROACTIVE ON RENTERS NOT JUST
TO WAIT FOR US TO DO ALL OF THE
WORK AND I THOUGHT ALL THESE
ARE COMMITTED.
THANK YOU.
MY UNDERSTANDING FROM THE CLERK
IS THAT MISS HUGHES IS BACK IN
THE QUEUE.
CORRECT?
MAYOR, THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MICHELLE
HUGHES
.
HELLO.
ROLL YOUR AUDIBLE CALLING ABOUT
ROAD.
OK, PERFECT GOING ABOUT THE
ROAD AT THING AND I IT&apos;S
DISAPPOINTING TO ME THAT BUT HE
HAS HALF A LOT OF GREAT POLICY
DOCUMENT AND THEY ALL SAY THAT
THE THAT FLAT ROAD THAT THEY
ALL SAY THAT WE NEED TO
REDESIGN OUR ROAD FOR SAFETY,
FOR NON MOTORIZED TRANSIT, FOR
ALL AGES AND ABILITIES BIKE
NETWORK AND YET SOMEHOW THAT
ROAD IMPROVEMENT CAME ONTO THE
AGENDA FULLY FORMED WITH NONE
OF THOSE IMPROVEMENTS AND I
HOPE THAT THE COUNCIL CAN PASS
A RESOLUTION SAYING EXPLICITLY
THAT THAT IMPROVEMENTS LIKE
THIS HAVE TO BE CONSIDERED IN
THE FUTURE BECAUSE APPARENTLY
THEY ARE HAVING HAVING IT IN
ALL THE PLANNING DOCUMENT
VISION ZERO AND EIGHT TO ZERO
AND ALL THAT SORT OF THING
ISN&apos;T ENOUGH TO MAKE A
DIFFERENCE AND YOU KNOW IT IT
SHOULDN&apos;T BE ON ACTIVIST AND
ORDINARY PEOPLE TO HAVE TO CALL
IN AND ASK THE CITY AND HOLD
THE CITY UP TO WHAT IT PROMISED
TO DO.
THE CITY SHOULD JUST DO THE
THING FOR THE WE HEARD ABOUT
OUR TIME IN THE PAST WHEN CITY
WHEN CITY COUNCIL HAD TO
APPROVE ANY TIME A LANE WAS
REDUCED.
WELL THAT WOULDN&apos;T APPLY IN
THIS SITUATION BECAUSE NO LANE
REDUCTION WAS WAS PROPOSED IN
THE PROPOSAL AND LANE REDUCTION
SHOULD ABSOLUTELY HAVE BEEN
PROPOSED IN THE PROPOSAL BIKE
LANE SHOULD HAVE BEEN PROPOSED
IN THE PROPOSAL AND I HOPE THAT
YOU ARE ABLE TO MAKE THAT
HAPPEN AND MAKE SURE THAT WHEN
THE ROAD IS REFURBISHED THAT
IT&apos;S DONE SO IN A MANNER THAT
SAFE AND AND CONSISTENT WITH
ALL THE POLICY DOCUMENTS THAT
THE CITY HAS HAD SO FAR AND I
HOPE THAT IN THE FUTURE THESE
THINGS WILL BE DONE
AUTOMATICALLY BY STAFF AND WE
WON&apos;T HAVE TO HAVE ADVOCATES
CALLING IN AND BEGGING THE CITY
TO DO BUT DO SO.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL AND COUNCIL MEMBER
GRISWOLD?
THANK YOU.
FIRST I JUST LIKE TO THANK THE
COMMUNITY MEMBERS AND STAFF
MEMBERS WHO HAVE BEEN
SUPPORTIVE OF SOME OF THE
INITIATIVES AND WHILE I&apos;M NOT
RUNNING FOR REELECTION I DO
HAVE SOME GOOD NEWS ITEMS.
NUMBER ONE, EPA HAS UPDATED THE
GOVERNMENT PROJECT AND IF YOU
SIMPLY GOOGLE EPA SLASH GALMAN
YOU WILL GET THE EPA&apos;S PAGE
THAT STATES THAT THE EPA AND
ICO ARE COORDINATING THEIR SITE
ASSESSMENT PROCESS.
SO THIS IS A MAJOR IMPROVEMENT
IN REALLY GOOD NEWS .
NUMBER TWO, I WANT TO COMMEND
THE CITY ATTORNEY FOR HER
STRATEGIC ACTIONS BOTH IN THE
COURTS AND ALSO MEETING WITH
DAN BECNEL TO GET A GOOD
COMPREHENSIVE UNDERSTANDING
OF GALMAN AND WATER ISSUES THAT
THE CITY FACES NO.
THREE, I WANT TO ENCOURAGE
EVERYONE TO CONTINUE TO USE A
TO FIX IT ESPECIALLY FOR STREET
LIGHT OUTAGES WHERE YOU NEED A
STREET LIGHT WHERE YOU NEED A
CROSSWALK WHERE THERE&apos;S
OVERGROWN VEGETATION OVER YOUR
SIDEWALK OR A BLOCKING
VISIBILITY ON CORNERS.
AND ONE THING THAT CONSTITUENTS
HAVE BEEN ASKING ME IS DO WE
HAVE AGING REPORTS OF AID TO
FIX SOME OF OUR REQUESTS SEEM
TO TO JUST GO INTO A BLACK HOLE
AND I DON&apos;T THINK THAT&apos;S THE
CASE.
BUT IT WOULD BE NICE TO HAVE A
REPORT THAT SHOWS THAT&apos;S NOT
THE CASE.
AND LASTLY, I WANT TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THE POLITICAL
SUPPORT THAT I HAVE BEEN
GETTING FOR THE TWO OF THEM
WORKFORCE HOUSING AT FIRST AND
I&apos;LL HAVE A REPORT ON THAT IN
JULY.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER BRITISH.
I WANTED TO SAY TO ANYONE WHO&apos;S
THANK YOU.
A WARD ONE RESIDENT THAT IF YOU
I WANTED TO SAY TO ANYONE WHO&apos;S
LIVE IN PRECINCTS TWO OR THREE
A WARD ONE RESIDENT THAT IF YOU
AND USUALLY VOTE AT COMMUNITY
LIVE IN PRECINCTS TWO OR THREE
HIGH YOU WILL BE VOTING AT THE
AND USUALLY VOTE AT COMMUNITY
HANDS ON MUSEUM FOR THE PRIMARY
HIGH YOU WILL BE VOTING AT THE
ON TUESDAY, AUGUST 2ND AND I
HANDS ON MUSEUM FOR THE PRIMARY
WANTED TO SAY THAT FRIDAY
ON TUESDAY, AUGUST 2ND AND I
AFTERNOON I ATTENDED THE ONE
WANTED TO SAY THAT FRIDAY
TWENTY ONE EAST KATHERINE
AFTERNOON I ATTENDED THE ONE
COMMUNITY FORUM.
TWENTY ONE EAST KATHERINE
IT WAS A BEAUTIFULLY
COMMUNITY FORUM.
FACILITATED EVENT BY JODY
IT WAS A BEAUTIFULLY
JOHNSON OH SORRY MY CITY EMAILS
FACILITATED EVENT BY JODY
ON AND THE PURPOSE OF THIS
JOHNSON OH SORRY MY CITY EMAILS
FORUM WAS TO TALK ABOUT THE
ON AND THE PURPOSE OF THIS
HISTORY OF THIS SITE FOR THE
FORUM WAS TO TALK ABOUT THE
ONE TWENTY ONE E E KATHERINE
HISTORY OF THIS SITE FOR THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT THAT
ONE TWENTY ONE E E KATHERINE
PROJECT IS LOCATED IS PLANNED
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PROJECT THAT
TO BE LOCATED IN THE HEART
PROJECT IS LOCATED IS PLANNED
OF WHAT USED TO BE AN ARBOR&apos;S
TO BE LOCATED IN THE HEART
BLACK BUSINESS DISTRICT AND THE
OF WHAT USED TO BE AN ARBOR&apos;S
PURPOSE OF FRIDAY&apos;S FORUM AND
BLACK BUSINESS DISTRICT AND THE
SUBSEQUENT FORUMS IN AUGUST IS
PURPOSE OF FRIDAY&apos;S FORUM AND
TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT PAST AND
SUBSEQUENT FORUMS IN AUGUST IS
ALLOW IT TO SHAPE THE PRESENT
TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT PAST AND
AND FUTURE OF THE DEVELOPMENT
ALLOW IT TO SHAPE THE PRESENT
ON THAT SITE.
AND FUTURE OF THE DEVELOPMENT
AND SO WE WILL BE HEARING MORE
ON THAT SITE.
FROM THE ANN ARBOR BLACK
AND SO WE WILL BE HEARING MORE
COMMUNITY REGARDING WHAT THIS
FROM THE ANN ARBOR BLACK
DISTRICT MEANT TO THEM AND
COMMUNITY REGARDING WHAT THIS
EXPLORING HOW THIS PROJECT CAN
DISTRICT MEANT TO THEM AND
BEST SERVE GOALS LIKE
EXPLORING HOW THIS PROJECT CAN
REPARATIVE JUSTICE, EQUITY AND
BEST SERVE GOALS LIKE
SUPPORTING BIPAC
REPARATIVE JUSTICE, EQUITY AND
ENTREPRENEURSHIP IN THE PRESENT
SUPPORTING BIPAC
.
ENTREPRENEURSHIP IN THE PRESENT
I CAN&apos;T SAY ENOUGH ABOUT WHAT A
.
MOVING AND PRODUCTIVE
EVENT IT
WAS AND I ENCOURAGE EVERYONE TO
ATTEND THE AUGUST FORUM BECAUSE
THERE IS A LOT TO LEARN AND TO
FUEL TODAY&apos;S ACTION.
COUNCIL MEMBER IHR THANK YOU.
AS THE CHIEF ARCHITECT OF THE
NEW BEST VALUE CONTRACTING
POLICY THAT WE HAVE HERE IN THE
CITY, I WANTED TO RESPOND TO
SOME OF THE COMMENTS THAT WERE
MADE BY THE REPRESENTATIVE FROM
FONTAIN.
THANK YOU FOR COMING TONIGHT.
I I CAN IMAGINE THAT THIS
CHANGE THAT WE&apos;VE MADE HERE IS
QUITE A SEISMIC SHIFT FOR YOU
AND YOU AS IT IS FOR OTHERS IN
YOUR POSITION.
PEOPLE WHO&apos;VE LONG BID JOBS AND
WON JOBS IN THE CITY BECAUSE
THEY HAD THE LOWEST BID AND ARE
SUDDENLY FINDING THEMSELVES ON
DIFFERENT FOOTING BECAUSE WE&apos;VE
WE HAVE MADE A CHANGE AND WE&apos;VE
MADE CHANGE THAT THAT VOTERS
OVERWHELMINGLY SUPPORTED.
WE HAVE MADE A CHANGE THAT NOW
MEANS THAT WE EVALUATE
CONTRACTS THE CITY MUCH MORE
LIKE YOU AND I EVALUATE HOW
WE&apos;RE GOING TO BUY A CAR OR A
REFRIGERATOR OR A NEW WASHER
DRYER.
WE&apos;RE MAKING THESE DECISIONS
BASED ON A VARIETY OF FACTORS
NOT JUST THE CHEAPEST.
AND THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS
FOR A LONG TIME COMPANIES LIKE
YOURS HAD A GREAT ADVANTAGE
BECAUSE OTHER COMPANIES THAT
THAT FOLLOW CERTAIN WAGE RULES
.
YOU KNOW, THEY&apos;RE EXPENSES ARE
PUBLISHED AND AND ALL IT TOOK
WAS, YOU KNOW, COMPANIES THAT
DON&apos;T FOLLOW THOSE RULES TO
UNDERCUT A LITTLE BIT AND THEY
WIN THE BID EVERY TIME.
NOW WE ARE LOOKING AT A WIDE
VARIETY OF FACTORS AND IF YOU
LOOK AT THE WHAT&apos;S INCLUDED IN
OUR PACKET, YOU YOU CAN SEE
WHAT YOU WERE LACKING IN WAS
WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT AND THAT
IS SOMETHING THAT&apos;S VERY
IMPORTANT TO WHAT I&apos;VE HEARD
FROM A A MAJORITY OF THIS
COUNCIL WHICH IS THAT COMPANIES
THAT PARTICIPATE IN A
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR SANCTIONED
NO THANK YOU PROGRAM WE CAN
UNDERSTAND WHAT THE TRAINING IS
AND COUNCILOR, THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I JUST WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
WE ARE MEETING ON A DIFFERENT
NIGHT TONIGHT BECAUSE THIS
WEEKEND THERE WAS A
COMMEMORATION OF JUNETEENTH.
THERE WERE CELEBRATIONS HERE IN
ANN ARBOR THANKS TO THE LIBRARY
BRANCH OF THE NAACP FOR PUTTING
ON A MARCH AND CELEBRATION FOR
THE COMMUNITY.
I ALSO ATTENDED THE EVENT IN
YPSILANTI AND I KNOW THAT THERE
IS A DESIRE FOR THOSE EVENTS TO
POTENTIALLY COLLABORATE IN THE
FUTURE FOR FOR GREATER UNITY
BETWEEN OUR COMMUNITIES.
I ALSO WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
EARLY VOTING STARTS THIS
THURSDAY AND SO FOR THOSE
OF YOU WHO PLAN TO VOTE
ABSENTEE, YOU CAN DO SO BY
FILLING OUT AN APPLICATION AND
GETTING YOUR BALLOT IN THE MAIL
FOR UPCOMING PRIMARY ELECTION.
IF YOU COME INTO THE CLERK&apos;S
OFFICE, I WILL NOTE THAT THEY
HAVE SOME AMAZING PRIDE THEMED
STICKERS FOR 80 VOTES TO REMIND
YOU THAT VOTING IN ANN ARBOR IS
INCLUSIVE AND WELCOMING AT OUR
POLLING LOCATIONS.
I ALSO WANT TO JUST ECHO SOME
OF THE REMARKS BY MY COLLEAGUE
COUNCIL MEMBER IHR.
WE DID SHIFT OUR POLICY WITH
REGARD TO HOW WE AWARD
CONTRACTS HERE IN THE CITY AS
SHE NOTED PREVIOUSLY WE AWARDED
CONTRACTS TO THE CHEAPEST
BIDDER.
NOW WE AWARD CONTRACTS BASED ON
QUALIFICATIONS AND EXPERIENCE
WORKPLACE SAFETY, WORKFORCE
DEVELOPMENT, SOCIAL EQUITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY AS WELL AS
PRICING AND COST.
I THINK THAT THAT WAS A
POSITIVE SHIFT.
IT WAS A SHIFT THAT WAS
OVERWHELMINGLY ENDORSED BY THE
VOTERS OF THIS COMMUNITY AND I
WILL SAY BY JOHNSON&apos;S OWN
DOCUMENTATION IN THE LAST TEN
YEARS THIRTY EIGHT POINT FIVE
DOLLARS BILLION IN TAXPAYER
FUNDING HAS BEEN AWARDED TO
THEIR COMPANY FOR WORK HERE IN
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
AND SO I CAN IMAGINE THAT ANY
TYPE OF SHIFT WOULD FEEL
MONUMENTAL BUT I DON&apos;T THINK
THAT IT IS TOO MUCH TO ASK THAT
WE ARE NOW ASKING COMPANIES TO
SHOW THEIR WORK AND WHY THEY
ARE ACTUALLY THE BEST VALUE FOR
OUR COMMUNITY.
YOU WILL NOTE THAT THERE ARE
THERE WAS AN EVALUATION OF THE
BIDS ON THE PROJECT, THE
PROJECT THAT WAS MENTIONED
TONIGHT.
ANY MEMBER OF THE COMMUNITY CAN
GO IN AND LOOK AT WHAT THE
BOARD&apos;S WORK AS WELL AS AS
FONTAIN THEMSELVES.
AND SO I ENCOURAGE EVERYONE TO
DO THAT REALLY.
THANK YOU.
I WASN&apos;T GOING TO SPEAK ON THIS
BUT I GUESS IT&apos;S BEEN SPOKEN TO
SO I GUESS I&apos;LL INDULGE MY
COLLEAGUES.
I WAS NOT IN FAVOR OF PROP THE
SEISMIC SHIFT OR HEARING ABOUT
I DIDN&apos;T BELIEVE IT WAS
COMPLETELY THOUGHT OUT.
I BELIEVE IT WOULD LEAD TO
CONFLICT AS WE ARE NOW
WITNESSING AND LISTENING TO YOU
ARE NOT THE FIRST CONTRACTOR TO
COME TO US WITH A LONG HISTORY
OF A GOOD WORKING RELATIONSHIP
WITH A CITY TO QUESTION HOW WE
DO BUSINESS TODAY, HOW A SMALL
BUSINESS OWNER I UNDERSTAND IT
.
YES, THESE FACTORS THAT GO INTO
AWARDING CONTRACTS ARE
IMPORTANT TO REFLECT OUR
VALUES, TO REFLECT OUR PROMISES
THAT WE&apos;VE MADE TO CONSTITUENTS
.
BUT WHEN YOU LOOK AT THIS NEW
SCORING SYSTEM AND YOU PUT COST
ON PAR WITH EVERYTHING ELSE AND
THEN WE ARE FIDUCIARIES OF THE
TAXPAYER WE HAVE TO UPHOLD OUR
CITY FINANCIALLY RESPONSIBLE AS
WELL AS THE NUTS AND BOLTS.
IT&apos;S NOT JUST A FASHION SHOW SO
MY COLLEAGUES DESCRIBE THIS
SEISMIC SHIFT.
I DON&apos;T THINK EXPERIENCE WHAT&apos;S
GOING TO HAPPEN NEXT.
THERE WILL BE CONSEQUENCES.
THERE WILL BE FALLOUT.
WE&apos;RE GOING TO PAY AN
ADDITIONAL HALF MILLION IN THIS
ONE CONTRACT FOR PLACE
DEVELOPMENT.
I&apos;D RATHER SEE US PUT A HALF
MILLION DOLLAR GRANT TOWARDS
PROGRAMS FOR WORKFORCE
DEVELOPMENT AND SEE IT BEING
SPENT TO GIVE TO AJAX.
I&apos;M ALTAY NATIONAL BILLIONAIRE
COMPANY.
FURTHER COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL I&apos;D LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION OF THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENTS ARE REPRESENTED TO
YOU FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION
OF THE JUNE SIX TWENTY TWENTY
REGULAR SESSION TO THE ENERGY
COMMISSION.
ALEX ZILLMAN KINDERCARE AND THE
ELIZABETH DEAN FUND.
RICHARD WHEELIN HAVE A MOTION
PLEASE BY I&apos;M SORRY THEY PULLED
THAT ON BACK.
IS THIS A REAL RESOLUTION TO A
POINT WEAPONS TO THE PEOPLE MY
APOLOGIES THEN WE NEED POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION MUBI
COUNCIL MEMBER FOR DENHA SECOND
BY COUNCIL MEMBER ON A
DISCUSSION PLEASE MAYOR.
THIS IS THE FIRST STEP IN A TWO
STEP PROCESS THIS IS JUST A
COUNCIL COMMUNICATION ASARE
THANK YOU.
THAT&apos;S NEVER A DENHA WELL WITH
THE COUNCIL ACQUIESCENCE WE
WILL WITHDRAW THAT THAT THAT
THAT MOVED MOTION SO FAR I SO
PROPERLY INTERRUPTED.
I&apos;D LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION FOR THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENTS THAT WERE
PRESENTED TO YOU FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION OF THE JUNE SIX
REGULAR SESSION MEETING TO THE
ENERGY COMMISSION.
ALEX ZELLMAN ZETTL MEN AND
KENDEL CUT INTO THE ELIZABETH
DENHA FUND.
RICHARD WHEELIN MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER A SECOND BY COUNCIL OVER
A DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF ONE IN FAVOR POSED.
THEY ARE APPROVED
PLEASE I
WOULD LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
FOLLOWING NOMINATIONS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE HOUSING
AND HUMAN SERVICES ADVISORY
BOARD SHARIF AHMED CROMARTY
MARY MEKONNEN AND JEAN LEVERAGE
TO THE PARK ADVISORY COMMISSION
TESHA MONTAGUE TO THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY MICHAEL
MILKEN MICHAEL AND SORRY I
APOLOGIZE.
WE NOW HAVE THE FORCE TO
CONSENT TO AND I HAVE A MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE CONSENT
AGENDA MOVE BY COUNSEL ALREADY
IN A SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG&apos;S DISCUSSION OF THE
CONSENT AGENDA.
GUESS WHAT I&apos;D LIKE TO SEE A
SEVEN RAMOGI PLATEFULS EIGHT
FOR THE DISCUSSION THE CONSENT
AGENDA WITH THE EXCEPTION OF A
SEVENTY EIGHT HE THE AGENDA
WITH THE EXCEPTION SEVEN NCAA
IS APPROVED WITH NINE COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE THE SATISFYINGLY
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH
RESPECT TO A FIVE FOUR SEET
SIXTEEN S.A SEVENTEEN S.A.
TWENTY THREE
S.A SEVEN
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE
CONTRACT WITH THE MICHIGAN
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
FOR THE ROAD IMPROVEMENTS
PROJECT
.
THE AMOUNT OF TWO MILLION THREE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY NINE
THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED DOLLARS
MOVE BY COUNCIL UNDER GRISWOLD
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGG&apos;S DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF SEVEN WORKERS.
WELL I&apos;M SORRY.
THANK YOU MR. DELANEY.
MR. DARNAY.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
WE HAVE AN INTRODUCTION FOR
ITEM SEVEN.
WE HAVE ACTUALLY TWO SETS
OF PRESSURES FROM COUNCIL
MEMBERS AND ALSO A NEED AND I
THINK AN OPPORTUNITY TO PRESENT
SOME CONTEXT TO THE ACTIONS
THAT STAFF HAS TAKEN.
WE HAVE NICK HUTCHINSON.
RAYMOND HAS AN EGO.
YOU ARE AVAILABLE ONLINE.
THANK YOU.
THANK
I&apos;M NICK HUTCHINSON&apos;S TO
THE ENGINEER.
I&apos;M GOING TO ADDRESS THE
QUESTIONS HERE THAT WE RECEIVED
ON SEVEN THOSE QUESTIONS.
OUR FIRST QUESTION WAS ABOUT
THE DECISION OF NOT
RECOMMENDING LAND CONVERSION OR
ROAD DIET HERE.
IF WE COULD EXPLAIN THE
RATIONALE BEHIND THAT.
THE SECOND ONE WAS DOES
APPROVAL OF THE CONTRACT
TONIGHT MEAN THAT THE RUNWAY
CONFIGURATION WILL NOT HAPPEN?
AND THEN THE THIRD QUESTION WAS
GIVEN THE NEW CONSTRUCTION AT
THE VIRIDIAN COUNTY PARK HAS
STAFF CONSIDERED DELAYING THE
RESURFACING UNTIL THE HEAVY
EQUIPMENT IS NO LONGER ON THE
RUNWAY?
FIRST OF ALL, CITY STAFF
PERFORMED AN ANALYSIS ON THE
SEGMENT OF FLAT ROAD
APPROXIMATELY TWO YEARS AGO TO
DETERMINE IF A FOUR TO THREE
LANE CONVERSION WAS POSSIBLE AT
THAT TIME TRAFFIC VOLUMES WERE
TOO HIGH FOR STAFF TO RECOMMEND
A CONVERSION.
HOWEVER, SINCE THAT TIME HAS
CHANGED IN PARTICULAR TRAFFIC
PATTERNS CHANGE DUE TO COVID
WE&apos;VE ALSO COMPLETED OUR MOVING
TOGETHER TRANSPORTATION PLAN
AND THIS HAS LED STAFF TO TO
REEVALUATE THE FEASIBILITY
OF THE LANE CONVERSION.
THAT ANALYSIS IS CURRENTLY
UNDERWAY AND IT WILL ALSO
INCLUDE A PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT
COMPONENT ADDITION TO OUR
TECHNICAL ANALYSIS.
NOW IN THE TERMS OF SOME LATE
BREAKING NEWS HERE DUE TO
MATERIAL SHORTAGES CONSTRUCTION
ON THIS PROJECT IS ACTUALLY
GOING TO BE DELAYED UNTIL THE
SPRING OF TWENTY TWENTY THREE.
SO WE DO HAVE SOME TIME HERE
BEFORE WE ACTUALLY MOVE INTO
CONSTRUCTION AND WHILE THE
CURRENT PLANS NOT INCLUDE A
LANE CONVERSION RIGHT NOW IF IT
IS DETERMINED THAT A CONVERSION
IS VIABLE THEN THAT CHANGE WILL
BE MADE.
THAT CHANGE CAN BE MADE TO THE
CONTRACTOR WITH A SIMPLE CHANGE
OR OR CHANGE TO THE CONTRACT
CAN BE MADE WITH THE SIMPLE
CHANGE ORDER STAFF EXPECTS TO
HAVE THE RESULTS OF THE LANE
CONVERSION ANALYSIS AND PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT EFFORT DONE BY THE
END OF THIS YEAR AND THAT
INFORMATION WILL BE SHARED WITH
THE PUBLIC AND WITH CITY
COUNCIL LISTENERS.
IT&apos;S AVAILABLE A LOT SO LACK
OF AN APPROVED CITY STATE
AGREEMENT WHICH IS BEFORE
COUNCIL TONIGHT WOULD
JEOPARDIZE THE APPROXIMATELY
ONE POINT FOUR MILLION DOLLARS
FEDERAL AID FUNDING THAT IS
ALLOCATED TO THE PROJECT AND
THEREFORE STAFF RECOMMENDS
APPROVING THE CITY STATE
AGREEMENT AT THIS TIME.
WHILE WE WORK ON THE ANALYSIS
OF THE LANE CONVERSION.
LIKEWISE, STAFF DOES NOT
RECOMMEND POSTPONING THE
PROJECT DUE TO THE VIRIDIAN
PROJECT THE ROAD IS DESIGNED TO
HANDLE CONSTRUCTION, TRAFFIC
AND POSTPONING THE PROJECT
AGAIN WOULD DEFINITELY RESULT
IN THE LOSS ABOUT ONE POINT
FOUR MILLION THE FEDERAL FUNDS
THANK YOU AND MYSELF MR. HESS.
MR. CARTER WILL BE HERE TO
ANSWER ANY FURTHER QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU COUNCILOR FOR
GRISWOLD.
I THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
ANSWERING THOSE QUESTIONS AND
THESE QUESTIONS WERE SUBMITTED
UNDER COUNCIL RULE TEN WHICH I
REALLY APPRECIATE ALLOWING US
TO ASK QUESTIONS IN WRITING UP
UNTIL NINE THIRTY ON THE DAY
OF THE COUNCIL MEETING I HOPE
I&apos;M SORRY THAT STAFF IS HAVING
TO DEAL WITH THESE POLITICAL
ISSUES AND WE DON&apos;T HAVE
COUNCIL AS A BUFFER BUT I WOULD
CAUTION STAFF TO MAKE SURE THAT
WE HAVE ACCURATE INFORMATION
BECAUSE THERE IS CONSIDERABLE
MISINFORMATION OUT THERE
ALREADY AND ONE OF MY CONCERNS
IS THAT PLANT ROAD FOR THIS
SEGMENT, A SIGNIFICANT PORTION
OF IT NOT HALF BUT A
SIGNIFICANT PORTION OF THE
NORTHERN END IS FIVE LANES, NOT
FOUR LANES.
SO YOU REALLY CAN&apos;T DO A FOUR
LANE TO THREE LANE CONVERSION
ON A FIVE LANE ROAD.
AND THE OTHER THING IS I&apos;M
HEARING A LOT OF INFORMATION
ABOUT HOW UNSAFE THAT CROSSWALK
IS EVEN THOUGH IT HAS A REFUGE
ISLAND AND I WAS TOLD THAT
THERE&apos;S A HALF OR MAYBE IT&apos;S
JUST AN RFP SCHEDULED FOR THAT
CROSSWALK.
CAN YOU COMMENT ON ANY
IMPROVEMENTS TO THE CROSSWALK?
YES, THERE IS IN OUR SCHEDULE
TO GO THE CROSSWALK.
OH OK.
AND IT HAS ADEQUATE REGARDLESS
OF THE CONVERSION.
OH OK.
AND SO THAT COULD HAPPEN THIS
YEAR OR DO WE HAVE DELAYED THAT
UNTIL THE ROAD RESURFACING.
IT&apos;S PART OF THE CONSTRUCTION
CONTRACT SO IN ALL LIKELIHOOD
WE&apos;LL HAVE TO DELAY THAT.
THERE&apos;S ALSO SOME CHANGES TO
THE I BELIEVE TO THE AID TO THE
RAMPS AND THE PUSH-BUTTON THAT
NEED TO HAPPEN AS PART THE
CONSTRUCTION.
SO UNFORTUNATELY THAT WE&apos;LL
HAVE TO WAIT FOR THE REST
OF THE PROJECT AS WELL.
OH OK.
AND LASTLY ON PLYMOUTH ROAD I
KNOW WE WERE ABLE TO NARROW THE
LANES AND GET BIKE LANES.
IS THERE ANY OPPORTUNITY TO DO
THAT ON THIS SEGMENT OF PLAT TO
KEEP THE SAME NUMBER OF LANES
BUT NARROW DOWN TO PROVIDE BIKE
LANES?
I&apos;M NOT CERTAIN I WILL ASK MR.
HESS, OUR TRANSPORTATION
MANAGER, IF HE HAPPENS TO KNOW
THAT OFFHAND.
BUT I&apos;M NOT SURE IF WE HAVE
THAT LEVEL OF DETAIL OR NOT.
OH, OK.
MY APOLOGIES.
I DON&apos;T MEAN TO PUT YOU ON THE
SPOT.
I JUST WANT TO THROW THAT OUT
THERE BECAUSE I KNOW I&apos;LL HAVE
CONSTITUENTS ASKING IT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
COUNCIL NEVER BRINGS THANK YOU
AND I APPRECIATE THE ANSWERS TO
THOSE QUESTIONS.
IT WAS DEFINITELY HELPFUL.
GOOD TO KNOW THAT THAT
FEASIBILITY ANALYSIS IS STILL
GOING ON AND THAT PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT IS ANTICIPATED ON IT
THOUGH I WOULD AND I THINK IN
THIS CASE IT&apos;S HELPFUL ACTUALLY
THAT CONSTRUCTION HAS BEEN
POTENTIALLY DELAYED.
THAT GIVES US AN OPPORTUNITY TO
GO THROUGH THAT DESIGN PROCESS
A LITTLE BIT A LITTLE MORE TIME
ON THAT.
I DID JUST FOORD AROUND SOME
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS AND I THINK
THERE THERE&apos;S SOMEWHAT
CONSISTENT WITH WHAT YOU JUST
PROVIDED FEEDBACK ON
ESSENTIALLY I WAIT UNTIL THOSE
GET SENT AROUND SO FOLKS CAN
SEE SO IN OUR COMPREHENSIVE
TRANSPORTATION PLAN AS YOU
MENTIONED, THIS IS ONE OF THE
REASONS STAFF IS LOOKING AT IT
AGAIN THIS SEGMENT WAS LISTED
AS A TIER ONE CORRIDOR.
IT IS ALSO LISTED AS IDENTIFIED
AS INC IDENTIFIED FOR AN ALL
AGES AND ABILITIES BICYCLE
ROUTE.
SO THE POLICY THAT WE HAVE
ALREADY KIND COMMUNICATED AS A
COUNCIL THAT WE WANT TO SEE
IMPLEMENTED ON THIS SEGMENT IS
ALREADY PRETTY CLEAR IN OUR
POLICY DOCUMENTS AND SO THIS
RESOLUTION SHOULD GO AROUND IS
TO SIMPLY CONSISTENTLY
INCORPORATE BICYCLE FACILITIES
CONSISTENT WITH THAT ALL AGES
AND ABILITIES BICYCLE ALONG
THAT SEGMENT OF FLAT ROAD THAT
WE WOULD WANT TO SEE THAT IN
THE FINAL DESIGN MY THING IS
PULLING UP IS THERE A IS THERE
A SECOND ON THE SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER A DENHA
WITH
BRAKES.
YEAH.
SO HOPEFULLY FOLKS CAN TAKE A
SECOND TO READ THROUGH IT.
THIS IS POLICY THAT WE&apos;VE
ALREADY ADOPTED.
IT&apos;S ALSO CONSISTENT WITH OUR
ZERO GOALS OF AS WELL.
BUT YOU KNOW I WOULD ANTICIPATE
THAT AT SOME POINT IN THIS
PROCESS OF RUNS SIGNIFICANT
UNFORESEEN ISSUES THEY MIGHT
COME BACK AND REPORT THAT TO
COUNCIL.
BUT THIS HAS BEEN IDENTIFIED BY
THE COMMUNITY AS SOMETHING THAT
THEY ALREADY WANT TO SEE AND A
PRIORITY FOR US BY COUNCIL
COUNCILOR REGINA.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
THANK YOU TO COUNCIL MEMBER AS
WELL FOR BRINGING THIS
AMENDMENT FORWARD WHICH IS MORE
REFLECTIVE OF ESTABLISHED
COUNCIL POLICY WITH WITH
RESPECT TO THE STREET COUNCIL
MEMBER GRANT I THIS IS A WARD
THREE PROJECT.
I&apos;VE HAD A NUMBER
OF CONVERSATIONS AND ENGAGE
WITH COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS ON
THIS.
I KNOW THAT WE&apos;VE HEARD FROM A
NUMBER OF CONSTITUENTS IN THE
AREA WHO FEEL THAT ADDITIONAL
SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS NEED TO BE
MADE IN ORDER FOR THEM TO FEEL
FEEL SAFE USING THE ROADWAY
THERE.
AND SO I JUST WANT TO ECHO MY
SUPPORT FOR THIS AMENDMENT,
ENCOURAGE COUNCIL TO ADOPT IT
SO THAT WE CAN WE CAN HAVE MORE
COMPREHENSIVE TRANSPORTATION
OPTIONS ON THE SEGMENT WHEN
IT&apos;S COMPLETED.
THANK YOU.
REALLY DON&apos;T LIKE THIS KIND
OF FLY BY SEE OUR PANTS AND
THESE KIND OF DECISIONS TO BE
HONEST WE HAVE SOMETHING HERE
THAT WAS TAKEN AWAY FROM
COUNCIL SOON AFTER THIS COUNCIL
TOOK CONTROL FOR US TO APPROVE
TRAFFIC PATTERNS AND LANE
CONFIGURATIONS.
WE HEARD WHY STAFF IS PROPOSED
THIS AND WHY WE SHOULD BE
VOTING ON IT TONIGHT.
WHAT CAN BE DONE LATER?
THE ADVANTAGES OF DOING IT NOW
,THE ISSUES THAT WE&apos;RE HAVING
RIGHT NOW WITH MATERIALS AND
HERE WE&apos;RE ASKING TO SOME GO IN
AND MICROMANAGE THIS AT THIS
POINT AS WELL.
SO I&apos;M JUST A LITTLE TORN
OF COURSE ON HERE IS WHAT
DIRECTION WE GO AS A GROUP DO
WE ALLOW STAFF TO TO DO THINGS
AND WORK ON POLICY HAS BEEN
ADOPTED OR DO WE BRING
AMENDMENTS
ON THE FLOOR NOT
KNOWING THE COSTS ASSOCIATED
WITH THEM AND
WHAT IT COULD DO
UNINTENDED THE UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCE IS YOU KNOW, I
WOULD LIKE TO ASK WHAT THE COST
IS FOR US TO DO THIS AND WHERE
WE&apos;VE DONE THIS RECENTLY.
SO I HAVE A BETTER
UNDERSTANDING OF WHAT THE ASK
IS BECAUSE OF THE OF THE
UNKNOWN I GUESS I DON&apos;T KNOW
THAT WE CAN ANSWER WITH
SPECIFICITY AROUND COST TONIGHT
WHAT STEP IS INDICATING IS THAT
THE PROCESS THAT WE&apos;RE DOING IS
ONGOING.
WE&apos;RE GOING TO COME BACK WITH
THE REVISED DESIGN.
THE DESIGN PROCESS IS NOT
FINISHED.
THE MAIN THING FROM OUR
PERSPECTIVE TONIGHT IS TO
SECURE A ONE POINT FOUR MILLION
IN FEDERAL DOLLARS IF YOU DON&apos;T
TAKE ACTION WE DON&apos;T GET BUT
WE&apos;LL WE&apos;LL BE IN A BETTER
POSITION TO ANSWER WITH MORE
SPECIFICITY WHEN THE PROCESS IS
DONE.
YOU STILL HAVE THE FLOOR.
I DON&apos;T REALLY LIKE SIGNING
BLANK CHECKS.
I NEED TO KNOW WHAT THIS IS
GOING TO COST AND IF IT&apos;S TO
SOFTEN THIS RESOLUTION TO SAY
SOMETHING A STRONG SUGGESTION
OF INCORPORATING NOT MANDATING
UNTIL I HAVE A BETTER IDEA
OF WHAT THOSE ARE.
PERHAPS THIS CAN COME BACK AS
THE ONGOING ANALYSIS IS GOING
TO CONTINUE AND WE HAVE MORE
INFORMATION TO MAKE AN INFORMED
DECISION.
I CAN&apos;T SUPPORT THIS WITHOUT
HAVING ALL THE INFORMATION BUT
THE INCREASE IN INFLATIONARY
COST WE A LOT OF THINGS AND NOT
KNOWING THE CONNECTIVITY TO
OTHER FACILITIES AND HOW THIS
FITS IN EVERYWHERE ELSE AND
WHAT WE&apos;RE DOING IN CONJUNCTION
WITH IT.
SO I&apos;M SORRY BUT I JUST CAN&apos;T
SUPPORT IT CAN&apos;T SNAP BACK TO
THE INFORMATION EVER BREAKS
JUST TO SPEAK A LITTLE BIT TO
YOUR QUESTIONS ON THAT.
SO JUST CLARIFICATION THIS THIS
IS AN EXAMPLE OF A CASE THAT
WAS TAKEN AWAY FROM COUNCIL.
THIS WAS THERE WAS NO PROPOSED
RODWAY RECONFIGURATION IN THIS
SEGMENT SO THIS NEVER WOULD
HAVE COME TO COME TO COUNCIL
UNDER THAT PREVIOUS POLICY.
HOWEVER, I WOULD LIKE TO POINT
OUT THAT IN EVERY INSTANCE WHEN
THERE WAS A RECONFIGURATION
UNDER THE OTHER POLICY THEY
WERE ALL VOTED DOWN.
SO I THINK IT WAS MORE OF A
VETO OPTION.
BUT THIS IS AN ATTEMPT TO
MICROMANAGE STAFF RATHER THIS
IS AN ATTEMPT TO MAKE SURE THAT
AS A BODY THAT WE ARE JUST
KEEPING AN EYE OUT FOR OUR
POLICIES AND WHEN WE SEE A
SITUATION WHERE WE IDENTIFY
SOMETHING WHERE IT DOESN&apos;T
APPEAR THAT&apos;S CONSISTENT WITH
OUR POLICIES, WE WE FLAGGED
THAT THIS WAS A DOCUMENT THAT
WAS UNANIMOUSLY ADOPTED BY
COUNCIL, A COMPREHENSIVE
TRANSPORTATION PLAN.
SO YOU&apos;VE ACTUALLY ALREADY
APPROVED THIS AS AN ALL AGES
AND ABILITY ROUTE THAT&apos;S IN
TERMS OF PLANNING EFFORTS.
BUT IT&apos;S NO GOOD IF IT&apos;S IN OUR
PLANS BUT NOT ON OUR PAVEMENT.
SO THAT&apos;S THIS IS AN ATTEMPT TO
LINE IT IN TERMS OF COST ROAD
RECONFIGURATIONS ARE TYPICALLY
ABOUT PAINT ON THE GROUND SO
THAT&apos;S NOT A HUGE COST.
HOWEVER, ALL AGES AND ABILITY
ROUTE ON A ROAD LIKE THAT I
COULD IMAGINE STAFF MIGHT COME
BACK IN AND BELIEVE THAT POST
AND DELINEATOR MIGHT ALSO BE
APPROPRIATE.
BUT I DIDN&apos;T WANT TO PUT THAT
INTO THE RESOLUTION BECAUSE I
FELT LIKE THAT MIGHT BE
MICROMANAGING THE DESIGN.
SO I THINK THAT THEY ARE MORE
THAN CAPABLE OF IDENTIFYING
WHAT THE APPROPRIATE DISABILITY
ROUTE IS ON THIS ROADWAY.
IT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT OUR
COMMUNITY HAS SAID THAT THEY
WANT AND SOMETHING THAT COUNCIL
HAS UNANIMOUSLY SAID THAT WE
BELIEVE THIS IS APPROPRIATE AS
WELL FOR THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBERS WILL I SEE THE
AMENDMENT AS BEING REDUNDANT?
WE ALREADY HAVE COMPLETE
STREETS.
WE ALREADY HAVE VISION ZERO.
I DON&apos;T KNOW WHY WE&apos;RE
RESTATING THE OBVIOUS HERE AND
AT THE SAME TIME WE DECIDED TO
LEAVE THESE DECISIONS UP TO
STAFF AND HERE WE ARE NOW
INTERFERING WITH STAFF.
IF A MEMBER OF THE COUNCIL
MAJORITY HAD BROUGHT SOMETHING
SIMILAR TO THIS FORWARD, THERE
WOULD BE EXTREME RESISTANCE AND
RIDICULE ON SOCIAL MEDIA.
AND SO I REALLY SEE AN UNEVEN
APPLICATION OF THE COUNCIL
RULES DEPENDING ON WHETHER
YOU&apos;RE IN THE MAYOR&apos;S PARTY OR
YOU&apos;RE NOT IN THE MAYOR&apos;S
PARTY.
I MEAN WHY IN THE WORLD ARE WE
TALKING ABOUT SOMETHING THAT IS
ALREADY COMPLETE STREETS?
I DON&apos;T SEE ANY NEED FOR IT.
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
GOVERNMENT COUNCIL OVER A DENHA
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
I&apos;M NOT GOING TO TRY TO
REITERATE EVERYTHING THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS ALREADY
VERY SUCCINCTLY LAID OUT FOR US
THAT DEMONSTRATES EXACTLY WHAT
WE ARE DOING HERE TONIGHT.
THERE IS IT IS ELECTION SEASON.
THERE IS CLEARLY SOME SOME
POLITICAL GAMESMANSHIP AFOOT.
BUT THE REALITY IS AS COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGG&apos;S POINTED OUT,
THIS IS NOT ABOUT A POLICY
THAT&apos;S BEING DISCUSSED HERE
TONIGHT.
MR. COUNCIL MEMBER POINT
OF PRIVILEGE.
YOU KNOW THERE IS NO MOTIVE HAS
BEEN A FELLOW COLLEAGUE MEMBER
YOU HAVE NOT TO SUGGEST COUNCIL
MEMBER I WOULD NOT BEFORE AND I
WOULD SUGGEST IF I DID NOT
ASSIGN THAT MOTIVE IF YOU WERE
FEELING ATTACKED PERHAPS THAT
IS SOMETHING YOU SHOULD TAKE
UNDER CONSIDERATION.
WHAT I AM SUGGESTING HERE
TONIGHT IS THAT THIS THIS
RESOLUTION THIS AMENDMENT TO
THIS RESOLUTION IS SIMPLY
RESTATING COUNCIL POLICY THAT
WAS UNANIMOUSLY APPROVED BY
THIS BODY AS COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS ALREADY POINTED OUT, WHAT
WE ARE DOING IS MAKING SURE
THAT WE ARE WE ARE HOLDING
ACCOUNTABLE OR WE HAVE SOME
ACCOUNTABILITY HERE WHEN WE SEE
AN OPPORTUNITY TO MAKE SURE
THAT OUR POLICY IS ACTUALLY
BEING IMPLEMENTED WHEN IT COMES
TIME TO ACTUALLY DO THE
REPAYMENT.
SO I DON&apos;T UNDERSTAND WHY THIS
IS WHY THIS IS CONTROVERSIAL.
THIS IS A POLICY THAT THIS BODY
UNANIMOUSLY APPROVED.
WE ARE HEARING CONFLICTING
INFORMATION ABOUT WHETHER OR
NOT WE SHOULD HAVE ADOPTED A
POLICY THAT TOOK US AWAY FROM
MICROMANAGING ACCUSING US NOW
OF MICROMANAGING.
YOU CAN&apos;T BE ON BOTH SIDES
OF THIS ISSUE.
THIS SHOULD BE PRETTY CLEAR IF
YOU SUPPORT IT, IF YOU SUPPORT
VISION ZERO, IF YOU SUPPORT
COMPLETE STREETS, IF YOU
SUPPORT THE COMPREHENSIVE
TRANSPORTATION PLAN THAT WE
UNANIMOUSLY ADOPTED, THIS
SHOULD NOT BE A HARD VOTE OR
THE DISCUSSION OF THE AMENDMENT
COUNCIL MEMBERS WILL I SUPPORT
ALL OF THOSE AND I&apos;VE BEEN
SUPPORTING VISION ZERO BEFORE
ANY OF YOU WHEN I WAS BEING
RIDICULED AS ZERO VISION LADY
SO LET&apos;S NOT TALK ABOUT WHO IS
FOR AND AGAINST VISION ZERO.
HOWEVER, WE HAVE A VERY
COMPETENT CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
WE HAVE VERY CLEAR POLICIES SO
I DON&apos;T UNDERSTAND THE
REDUNDANCY OF THIS AMENDMENT
AND I WON&apos;T BE SUPPORTING IT
BECAUSE SIMPLY THINK IT CLOUDS
THE ISSUE IF WE HAVE TO RESTORE
EIGHT ON THIS ISSUE, DOES THAT
MEAN ON OTHER ROAD PROJECTS WE
DON&apos;T REALLY EXPECT COMPLETE
STREETS UNLESS WE STATED AT THE
COUNCIL TABLE COUNCIL MARIAH,
I&apos;LL BE REALLY BRIEF.
IT&apos;S ONE THING TO SAY YOU
SUPPORT VISION ZERO.
IT&apos;S ANOTHER THING TO VOTE IN
SUPPORT OF POLICIES THAT
SUPPORT VISION ZERO AND IT&apos;S
VERY CLEAR AT THIS TABLE WHO
DOES WHICH OF THOSE THINGS
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
AMENDMENT FOR MY PART I&apos;LL BE
VOTING IN FAVOR OF THE
AMENDMENT THOUGH I AM
SYMPATHETIC TO THE NOTION THAT
IT MIGHT BE IT MIGHT BE
REDUNDANT.
WHAT WE HEARD TODAY FROM STAFF
IS THAT THE DESIGN FOR THIS
ROADWAY WAS BASED ON DATA BACK
IN AND TWO YEARS AGO TWENTY
TWENTY THE TWENTY TWENTY ONE
COMPREHENSIVE TRANSPORTATION
PLAN IS AN INTERVENING FACTOR
IN MY VIEW IT SEEMS PERFECTLY
REASONABLE TO TO EXPECT STAFF
IN THE COURSE OF ITS REDESIGN
TO TAKE THE TWENTY TWENTY ONE
COMPREHENSIVE TRANSPORTATION
PLAN INTO ACCOUNT AND IT&apos;S MY
EXPECTATION THAT THEY WOULD
HAVE ABSENT THIS THIS AMENDMENT
AT THE SAME TIME THE AMENDMENT
IS INNOCUOUS AND IT CERTAINLY
DOES NO HARM AND DOES EMPHASIZE
COUNCIL&apos;S CONCLUSION SHOULD IT
PASS THAT THE TWENTY TWENTY ONE
COMPREHENSIVE TRANSPORTATION
PLAN IS A THING OF IMPORTANCE
TO BE NOTED AND SO I THINK
THERE&apos;S A LOT BEING MADE OF AND
I DON&apos;T THINK THAT THAT&apos;S
NECESSARY.
I THINK THAT THIS IS A ITEM
OF OF INTEREST AND THAT WE
SHOULD JUST MOVE ON FURTHER
DISCUSSION ROLL-CALL VOTE ON
THE AMENDMENT AND I&apos;M AFRAID I
DON&apos;T RECOLLECT WHO IS FIRST.
MR GARRETT CUSTOMER DENHA THANK
YOU VERY MUCH ROLL-CALL VOTE
PLEASE ON THE AMENDMENT
STARTING WITH COUNCIL MEMBER A
DENHA CUSTOMER DENHA YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES CUSTOMER AH
YES CUSTOMER NELSON YES
CUSTOMER BRIGS YES I COME FROM
RALEIGH NO CUSTOMER HAYNER
ABSENT CUSTOMER REDISH YES
CONFIRM GURSEL NO SALESPERSON
ABSENT CUSTOMER GRANT ABSENT
THE AMENDMENT CARRIES PART
OF THE DISCUSSION THE MAIN
MOTION AS AMENDED COUNTS BRIGS
.
I JUST REALIZED THAT FOLKS IN
THE PUBLIC MIGHT BE A LITTLE
BIT CONFUSED BECAUSE WHILE I
KIND OF SPOKE TO THE AND I
NEVER READ IT OUT LOUD SO I
WOULDN&apos;T I&apos;D LIKE TO READ IT
OUT TO MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC
COULD ACTUALLY KNOW WHAT WE
JUST VOTED ON WHICH IS EDITIONS
OF WHEREAS THE SEGMENT THE PLAT
ROAD IS LISTED AS A TIER ONE
CORRIDOR IN THE TWENTY TWENTY
ONE COMPREHENSIVE
TRANSPORTATION PLAN AND WHEREAS
THE SEGMENT OF PLATTE ROAD IS
IDENTIFIED FOR THE
INCORPORATION IN ALL AGES AND
ABILITIES BICYCLE ROUTE IN THE
TWENTY TWENTY ONE COMPREHENSIVE
TRANSPORTATION PLAN AND
RESOLVED CITY COUNCIL DIRECTS
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR TO
INCORPORATE BICYCLE FACILITIES
CONSISTENT WITH AN ALL AGES AND
ABILITIES BICYCLE ROUTE ALONG
THIS SEGMENT OF FLAT ROAD.
SO MY APOLOGIES FOR NOT DOING
THAT EARLIER.
I WOULD NOTE ALSO THAT
FURTHER
DISCUSSION OF COUNCIL MEMBER
MALLOY.
THANK YOU.
UM MY MY CONCERNS ON FISCAL
ISSUES IS NOT POLITICAL
GAMESMANSHIP.
I&apos;M CONCERNED THAT MY THOUGHTS,
IDEAS AND CONCERNS AND ISSUES
ARE JUST BEING UNDERMINED AND
DISCREDITED BECAUSE THERE&apos;S AN
ELECTION COMING UP.
I GUESS IF THIS WAS THE FIRST
TIME I HAD THIS THOUGHT AND WE
PASSED NEW RULES WHERE WE
DIDN&apos;T WE WERE GOING TO TALK
ABOUT OTHER PEOPLE&apos;S MOTIVES.
WE GOING TO SPEAK TO OUR OWN
MOTIVES I CALL FOR TO BRING
THAT UP AND NOT GRANTED WHAT I
BELIEVE I DESERVE IS A CITY
COUNCIL MEMBER.
THERE IS TWO SETS OF RULES AND
IT&apos;S OBVIOUS SO THEY CONTINUE
MY WORK AND COUNCIL FOR THE
NEXT SEVERAL MONTHS AND
HOPEFULLY FOR MORE YEARS.
I HOPE MY MOTIVES I DON&apos;T
QUESTION INDIA&apos;S POLITICAL
GAMESMANSHIP.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
OF THE MAIN MOTION AS AMENDED
ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE.
STARTING COUNTS MEMBER OF DENHA
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
CUSTOMER YES.
CUSTOMER NELSON YES.
CUSTOMER HAYNER ABSENT CUSTOMER
CUSTOMER YES.
DISH YES.
CUSTOMER HAYNER ABSENT CUSTOMER
CUSTOMER GURSEL YES.
DISH YES.
NO MORE SONGANE GRAND ABSENT
CUSTOMER GURSEL YES.
THE MOTION CARRIES I TAKE THIS
NO MORE SONGANE GRAND ABSENT
OPPORTUNITY TO NOTE THAT WITH
THE MOTION CARRIES I TAKE THIS
RESPECT TO THE BALANCE OF THE
OPPORTUNITY TO NOTE THAT WITH
CONSENT AGENDA I THINK I
RESPECT TO THE BALANCE OF THE
ARTICULATED THAT THERE WERE
CONSENT AGENDA I THINK I
NINE COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
ARTICULATED THAT THERE WERE
ALL VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
NINE COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
THAT SATISFIED THE SEVERAL
ALL VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENTS THAT I
THAT SATISFIED THE SEVERAL
IDENTIFIED THAT WAS INCORRECT.
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENTS THAT I
THERE ARE EIGHT COUNCIL MEMBERS
IDENTIFIED THAT WAS INCORRECT.
PRESENT ALL OF WHOM VOTED IN
THERE ARE EIGHT COUNCIL MEMBERS
THE AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING
PRESENT ALL OF WHOM VOTED IN
THE EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH
THE AFFIRMATIVE THUS SATISFYING
RESPECT TO THE SEVERAL EIGHT
THE EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A
RESPECT TO THE SEVERAL EIGHT
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT WITH AJAX
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A
PAVING INDUSTRIES INC FOR THE
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT WITH AJAX
GETTY&apos;S AVENUE AND HURON
PAVING INDUSTRIES INC FOR THE
PARKWAY TO BEGIN PARKWAY
GETTY&apos;S AVENUE AND HURON
RESURFACING PROJECT RFP TWENTY
PARKWAY TO BEGIN PARKWAY
TO TWENTY FIVE AND THE AMOUNT
RESURFACING PROJECT RFP TWENTY
THE FOUR MILLION TWO HUNDRED
TO TWENTY FIVE AND THE AMOUNT
THIRTY DOLLARS EIGHT HUNDRED
THE FOUR MILLION TWO HUNDRED
AND EIGHT HUNDRED AND NINETY
THIRTY DOLLARS EIGHT HUNDRED
FIVE DOLLARS AND SIXTY CENTS
AND EIGHT HUNDRED AND NINETY
AND TO APPROPRIATE ONE MILLION
FIVE DOLLARS AND SIXTY CENTS
ELEVEN THOUSAND DOLLARS
AND TO APPROPRIATE ONE MILLION
INTERNAL CONTRIBUTING FUNDS
ELEVEN THOUSAND DOLLARS
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER RIMAWI
INTERNAL CONTRIBUTING FUNDS
TAKEN BY COUNCIL MEMBER IA
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER RIMAWI
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF EIGHT
TAKEN BY COUNCIL MEMBER IA
COUNCIL MEMBER AMAWI 3Q THE NEW
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF EIGHT
MATRIX THAT WE&apos;RE USING TO
COUNCIL MEMBER AMAWI 3Q THE NEW
AWARD CONTRACTS AS OF LATE AS A
MATRIX THAT WE&apos;RE USING TO
RESULT PROP HAS CAUSED ME TO
AWARD CONTRACTS AS OF LATE AS A
HAVE SERIOUS CONCERNS AND
RESULT PROP HAS CAUSED ME TO
RESERVATIONS IN AWARDING THEM
HAVE SERIOUS CONCERNS AND
UNDER THIS NEW PARADIGM WE
RESERVATIONS IN AWARDING THEM
CONTINUOUSLY HEAR THAT WE HAVE
UNDER THIS NEW PARADIGM WE
MOUNTAIN INFRASTRUCTURE ISSUES
CONTINUOUSLY HEAR THAT WE HAVE
,LIMITED RESOURCES AND
MOUNTAIN INFRASTRUCTURE ISSUES
INFLATIONARY COSTS AND HERE WE
,LIMITED RESOURCES AND
HAVE A CONTRACT IF I UNDERSTAND
INFLATIONARY COSTS AND HERE WE
WE WILL BE SPENDING AN
HAVE A CONTRACT IF I UNDERSTAND
ADDITIONAL HALF MILLION DOLLARS
WE WILL BE SPENDING AN
ON THIS ONE SINGLE CONTRACT FOR
ADDITIONAL HALF MILLION DOLLARS
WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT HALF
ON THIS ONE SINGLE CONTRACT FOR
MILLION DOLLARS SO WE&apos;RE GOING
WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT HALF
TO SHELL OUT TO A COMPANY
MILLION DOLLARS SO WE&apos;RE GOING
THAT&apos;S MAKING RECORD PROFITS
TO SHELL OUT TO A COMPANY
FOR WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT.
THAT&apos;S MAKING RECORD PROFITS
WE TURNED DOWN SO MANY OTHER
FOR WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT.
SMALLER REQUESTS FOR SO MANY
WE TURNED DOWN SO MANY OTHER
OTHER THINGS WHEN WE NEED A
SMALLER REQUESTS FOR SO MANY
BIKE PATH FOR FOUR HUNDRED
OTHER THINGS WHEN WE NEED A
THOUSAND WE DON&apos;T HAVE IT.
BIKE PATH FOR FOUR HUNDRED
WE NEED A QUARTER MILLION
THOUSAND WE DON&apos;T HAVE IT.
DOLLARS OR SOMETHING.
WE NEED A QUARTER MILLION
WE DON&apos;T HAVE IT.
DOLLARS OR SOMETHING.
BUT HERE WE ARE GOING TO SPEND
WE DON&apos;T HAVE IT.
A HALF MILLION DOLLARS FOR THIS
BUT HERE WE ARE GOING TO SPEND
VALUE I GUESS.
A HALF MILLION DOLLARS FOR THIS
AND TO SUGGEST THAT PEOPLE WHO
VALUE I GUESS.
ARE FISCALLY MINDED CAUSES
AND TO SUGGEST THAT PEOPLE WHO
HEARTBURN AND SO BASED ON THE
ARE FISCALLY MINDED CAUSES
ISSUES THAT WE&apos;VE BEEN
HEARTBURN AND SO BASED ON THE
EXPERIENCING AND BASED ON THE
ISSUES THAT WE&apos;VE BEEN
FACT THAT ALL THIS THESE FIVE
EXPERIENCING AND BASED ON THE
CRITERIA ARE ALL WEIGHTED THE
FACT THAT ALL THIS THESE FIVE
SAME INCLUDING COST WHICH TO ME
CRITERIA ARE ALL WEIGHTED THE
I THINK IS A LITTLE BIT MORE
SAME INCLUDING COST WHICH TO ME
IMPORTANT.
I THINK IS A LITTLE BIT MORE
I DON&apos;T KNOW YOU GO TO WORK
IMPORTANT.
EVERY DAY SO I LOOK AT EVERY
I DON&apos;T KNOW YOU GO TO WORK
DOLLAR THAT I MAKE AND EVERY
EVERY DAY SO I LOOK AT EVERY
DOLLAR I SPEND.
DOLLAR THAT I MAKE AND EVERY
THAT&apos;S JUST HOW I HAVE TO DO
DOLLAR I SPEND.
THINGS.
THAT&apos;S JUST HOW I HAVE TO DO
AND SO LOOKING GOING TO GET THE
THINGS.
BEST VALUE THE BEST VALUE FOR
AND SO LOOKING GOING TO GET THE
THE TAXPAYER DOLLARS SO THAT
BEST VALUE THE BEST VALUE FOR
THE QUALITY OF LIFE IN THIS
THE TAXPAYER DOLLARS SO THAT
COMMUNITY IS AS GREAT AS IT CAN
THE QUALITY OF LIFE IN THIS
BE AND THE TAX DOLLARS ARE
COMMUNITY IS AS GREAT AS IT CAN
STRETCHED AS YOU AS YOU ALL
BE AND THE TAX DOLLARS ARE
KNOW, PEOPLE BRING THAT UP
STRETCHED AS YOU AS YOU ALL
FIRST THING HOW MUCH TAXES THEY
KNOW, PEOPLE BRING THAT UP
PAY IN THE CITY IS
FIRST THING HOW MUCH TAXES THEY
EXTRAORDINARILY HIGH IN TAXES
PAY IN THE CITY IS
AND THE INFRASTRUCTURE IS AGING
EXTRAORDINARILY HIGH IN TAXES
AND FALLEN APART.
AND THE INFRASTRUCTURE IS AGING
CLIMATE CHANGE IS STRESSING IT
AND FALLEN APART.
ALL AND WE&apos;RE GOING TO BE
CLIMATE CHANGE IS STRESSING IT
SPENDING MILLIONS AND MILLIONS
ALL AND WE&apos;RE GOING TO BE
OF DOLLARS MORE FOR SOMETHING I
SPENDING MILLIONS AND MILLIONS
DON&apos;T FULLY UNDERSTAND.
OF DOLLARS MORE FOR SOMETHING I
I DON&apos;T THINK THE PUBLIC FULLY
DON&apos;T FULLY UNDERSTAND.
UNDERSTANDS NOR DID THE PUBLIC
I DON&apos;T THINK THE PUBLIC FULLY
FULLY UNDERSTAND THAT WHEN THEY
UNDERSTANDS NOR DID THE PUBLIC
VOTED FOR THIS CHANGE IT WAS A
FULLY UNDERSTAND THAT WHEN THEY
14 PERCENT TURNOUT IN A SPECIAL
VOTED FOR THIS CHANGE IT WAS A
ELECTION.
14 PERCENT TURNOUT IN A SPECIAL
SO YOU KNOW, THE ANTI
ELECTION.
COMPETITIVE PRACTICE THAT&apos;S
SO YOU KNOW, THE ANTI
BEEN SUGGESTED BY SOME FAILURE
COMPETITIVE PRACTICE THAT&apos;S
FAILURES OF PROPER SHOWING HERE
BEEN SUGGESTED BY SOME FAILURE
TONIGHT I WON&apos;T BE SUPPORTING
FAILURES OF PROPER SHOWING HERE
THIS COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA.
TONIGHT I WON&apos;T BE SUPPORTING
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
THIS COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA.
I HAVE NO PROBLEM SUPPORTING
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
THE NEW EVALUATION CRITERIA
I HAVE NO PROBLEM SUPPORTING
THAT WAS APPROVED BY A MAJORITY
THE NEW EVALUATION CRITERIA
OF THE VOTERS WHO TURNED OUT TO
THAT WAS APPROVED BY A MAJORITY
SUPPORT THIS CHANGE WHICH I
OF THE VOTERS WHO TURNED OUT TO
BELIEVE WAS MORE THAN MANY IF
SUPPORT THIS CHANGE WHICH I
NOT ALL OF US AT THIS COUNCIL
BELIEVE WAS MORE THAN MANY IF
TABLE RECEIVED IN ANY OF OUR
NOT ALL OF US AT THIS COUNCIL
ELECTIONS.
TABLE RECEIVED IN ANY OF OUR
BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY I THINK
ELECTIONS.
JUST TO MAKE SURE THAT THERE&apos;S
BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY I THINK
NOT CONFUSION FOR THOSE WHO ARE
JUST TO MAKE SURE THAT THERE&apos;S
LISTENING WORKFORCE
NOT CONFUSION FOR THOSE WHO ARE
DEVELOPMENT, THE TRAINING
LISTENING WORKFORCE
ASPECT OF THE WORKERS WHO ARE
DEVELOPMENT, THE TRAINING
GOING ON THE JOB WAS WAS A HUGE
ASPECT OF THE WORKERS WHO ARE
COMPONENT OF WHERE THE
GOING ON THE JOB WAS WAS A HUGE
DIFFERENCE IS HERE.
COMPONENT OF WHERE THE
BUT WORKPLACE SAFETY AND
DIFFERENCE IS HERE.
QUALIFICATIONS, EXPERIENCE AND
BUT WORKPLACE SAFETY AND
ACCOUNTABILITY WERE ALSO AREAS
QUALIFICATIONS, EXPERIENCE AND
WHERE AJAX PAVING STOOD OUT IN
ACCOUNTABILITY WERE ALSO AREAS
THE NEW CRITERIA.
WHERE AJAX PAVING STOOD OUT IN
AND SO THIS ISN&apos;T YOU KNOW,
THE NEW CRITERIA.
THERE WERE AREAS THAT FONTAIN
AND SO THIS ISN&apos;T YOU KNOW,
SCORED HIGHER ULTIMATELY WHEN
THERE WERE AREAS THAT FONTAIN
THE SCORES WERE TALLIED ADRAC
SCORED HIGHER ULTIMATELY WHEN
CAME OUT ON TOP BECAUSE IT
THE SCORES WERE TALLIED ADRAC
PROVIDED THE BEST VALUE BASED
CAME OUT ON TOP BECAUSE IT
ON THE CRITERIA THAT VOTERS IN
PROVIDED THE BEST VALUE BASED
THIS CITY HAVE INDICATED THAT
ON THE CRITERIA THAT VOTERS IN
THEY WANT.
THIS CITY HAVE INDICATED THAT
I THINK THAT THOSE ARE THINGS
THEY WANT.
THAT ARE IMPORTANT TO PAY FOR
I THINK THAT THOSE ARE THINGS
THEIR AS WAS NOTED PREVIOUSLY,
THAT ARE IMPORTANT TO PAY FOR
FONTAIN HAS BEEN AWARDED THIRTY
THEIR AS WAS NOTED PREVIOUSLY,
EIGHT AND A HALF MILLION
FONTAIN HAS BEEN AWARDED THIRTY
DOLLARS OVER THE LAST TEN
EIGHT AND A HALF MILLION
YEARS.
DOLLARS OVER THE LAST TEN
DID PROJECTS IN THE CITY.
YEARS.
ONE OF THOSE IS CURRENTLY
DID PROJECTS IN THE CITY.
HAPPENING RIGHT NOW THEY ARE
ONE OF THOSE IS CURRENTLY
STILL DOING WORK IN THE CITY.
HAPPENING RIGHT NOW THEY ARE
THERE HAVE ALSO BEEN MISTAKES
STILL DOING WORK IN THE CITY.
THAT HAVE HAPPENED AT SOME
THERE HAVE ALSO BEEN MISTAKES
OF THOSE PROJECTS, ONE OF WHICH
THAT HAVE HAPPENED AT SOME
JUST HAPPENED LAST WEEK AT THE
OF THOSE PROJECTS, ONE OF WHICH
PROJECT THAT THAT WAS BEING
JUST HAPPENED LAST WEEK AT THE
DONE.
PROJECT THAT THAT WAS BEING
AND SO THERE ARE REASONS THAT
DONE.
WE HAVE IMPLEMENTED OR
AND SO THERE ARE REASONS THAT
IMPLEMENTED THESE NEW SCORING
WE HAVE IMPLEMENTED OR
CRITERIA IS BECAUSE WE DON&apos;T
IMPLEMENTED THESE NEW SCORING
JUST WANT THE CHEAPEST OPTION,
CRITERIA IS BECAUSE WE DON&apos;T
WE WANT THE ONE THAT IS GOING
JUST WANT THE CHEAPEST OPTION,
TO BE THE BEST VALUE FOR OUR
WE WANT THE ONE THAT IS GOING
TAX DOLLARS
.
NOW
THE SECOND THING THAT I&apos;M
YES, WITH A STATE THAT WAS MADE
BY AN EMPLOYEE WE DIDN&apos;T CHECK
THERE AGAIN.
SO LET&apos;S NOT SIT HERE AND
PRETEND TO BE THE PERFECT RIGHT
PEOPLE MAKE BUT WHAT OUR JOB IT
IS TO GET THE BEST VALUE FOR
OUR DOLLARS.
NOW THIS DEBATE REMINDS ME
OF THE WAL-MART.
YOU KNOW, THEY ASK HOW WAL-MART
NO MORE WAL-MART ALWAYS COST
MORE WAL-MART CUSTOMER.
WHY IS THAT THE CHEAPEST PRICE
AT WAL-MART BUT THEY DON&apos;T PAY
THEIR EMPLOYEES ENOUGH SO WE
ALL HAVE TO PAY FOR THEIR
EMPLOYEES TO BE ON MEDICARE FOR
THEIR EMPLOYEES TO BE ON
UNEMPLOYMENT BECAUSE THEY DON&apos;T
LIKE WAL-MART AND PLUS MORE THE
CHEAPEST IF NOT ALWAYS THE
BEST.
AND WHAT WE HAVE PROVIDED IS
THAT YES, IT&apos;S OKAY TO PAY A
LITTLE BIT MORE SO THAT PEOPLE
ARE PAID GOOD WAGES, THEY GET
GOOD BENEFITS OVER TIME IN GOOD
HEALTH CARE AND IF THEY&apos;RE SAFE
ON THE JOB AND THEY GET THE
TRAINING THEY NEED TO DO THE
JOB CORRECTLY SO WE DON&apos;T HAVE
SITUATIONS LIKE THIS.
WHY WOULD YOU VOTED IN FAVOR
OF THIS?
I THINK FOLKS HAVE ALREADY
IDENTIFIED KIND THE BACKGROUND
OF OUR BEST VALUE NEW SELECTION
CRITERIA.
I APPRECIATE CONTENT COMPANY
BEING HERE TONIGHT AND RAISING
QUESTIONS ABOUT KIND OF THE NEW
I APPRECIATE I APPRECIATE YOU
BEING HERE THIS EVENING AND
RAISING QUESTIONS ABOUT HOW OUR
SELECTION PROCESS WORKS IN
GENERAL.
I THINK THAT I WANT TO SAY
THANK YOU TO ALL OF THE
COMPANIES THAT HAVE WORKED WITH
US IN THE PAST.
IT&apos;S CLEAR THAT JOHNSON HAS
DONE A LOT OF WORK WITH US IN
THE IN THE PAST, SOME OF WHICH
SOME OF THE PROJECTS HAVE NOT
HAVE HAD SOME PROBLEMS.
I&apos;M SURE SOME OF THEM HAVE BEEN
OUTSTANDING BECAUSE YOU&apos;VE
CONTINUED TO BE A COMPANY
THAT&apos;S WORKED WITH US.
I DO THINK THAT ONE THING
THAT&apos;S IMPORTANT TO STRESS
ABOUT THE BEST VALUE IS THAT
THE CRATE EACH CONTRACT IS
EVALUATED ON ITS OWN MERITS AND
SO WHILE IN ONE SITUATION A
COMPANY MIGHT COME OUT NOT COME
OUT AS THE BEST VALUE IN THE
NEXT CONTRACT SELECTION, THEY
MIGHT SO I KNOW THAT YOU WERE
EXPRESSING QUESTIONS SHOULD YOU
CONTINUE TO BID FOR THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR?
DO YOU THINK IT&apos;S IMPORTANT TO
KNOW THAT YOU KNOW, WE
CERTAINLY WELCOME THAT ALL
COMPANIES TO BE CONTINUING,
ESPECIALLY ONES WHO HAVE DONE
WORK WITH THE CITY FOR AN
EXTENDED PERIOD OF TIME TO
CONTINUE TO PUT FORWARD BIDS ON
PROJECTS THAT YOU THINK THAT
YOU WOULD BE PROVIDING GOOD
SERVICE FOR AND YOU KNOW BUT I
I THINK WE&apos;VE ARTICULATED THE
TABLE WHY WE HAVE MADE THESE
CHANGES AND THAT WE UNANIMOUSLY
HAVE SUPPORTED THEM AT THE
TABLE IN THE PAST.
WELL, THANK YOU.
I JUST WANT TO EXTEND
APPRECIATION FOR PETE FOR BEING
HERE TONIGHT.
YOU KNOW, THESE ISSUES EXISTED
BEFORE THIS RESOLUTION CAME
BEFORE US TONIGHT.
SO YOU DIDN&apos;T REALLY START
ANYTHING OBVIOUSLY.
UM, YOU KNOW, I DID VOTE FOR
THESE THIS NEW SET OF METRICS.
YOU KNOW, IT DIDN&apos;T REALLY
MATTER BECAUSE IT WAS GOING TO
BE APPROVED ANYWAYS.
SO I MAY AS I GO ALONG WITH IT.
RIGHT.
AND NOW I&apos;M STARTING TO SEE THE
EFFECTS OF IT.
I&apos;M STARTING TO SEE THE FALLOUT
WE&apos;VE TWO CONTRACTORS WHO
WORKED FOR THE CITY FOR MANY
YEARS HAVE GREAT CONCERN AND
COME HERE AND TO BE HONEST WITH
YOU IN MANY CASES BE
DISRESPECTED, DISRESPECTED.
IT&apos;S POOR SUPPORT FOR EXAMPLE,
I SAID AND I&apos;M SORRY THEY
DESERVE BETTER BUT I BELIEVE
THAT AS A HUMAN WE ALL LEARN
AND WE LEARN FROM OUR MISTAKES
AND WE LEARN FROM EXPERIENCE
AND WE&apos;RE ABLE TO CHANGE OUR
POSITIONS ON MATTERS AND SO
YES, I SUPPORTED THIS NEW SET
IS THIS SCORING CRITERIA THAT
DOESN&apos;T MEAN I HAVE TO VOTE FOR
EVERY CONTRACT COMES ACROSS
THIS TABLE BECAUSE IT HAS IT.
I LOOK AT THIS AND I SAY HALF A
MILLION DOLLARS AND SO YOU KNOW
YOU KNOW, I JUST THINK YOU AND
PERHAPS CAST ASPERSIONS AS TO
WHAT HAPPENED ON STATE STREET.
I&apos;M NOT QUITE FAMILIAR WITH IT
BUT I KNOW FROM CITY WORKERS ON
OUR OWN THEY HAVE TROUBLES WITH
THESE OLD MAPS AND WE&apos;RE VALVES
AND WE&apos;RE PIPES ARE WHERE THE
INFRASTRUCTURE IS.
THERE IS ONE HUNDRED YEARS OLD
IN OUR CITY.
SO WHEN CONTRACTORS GO IN AND
DO WORK AND THEY HIT THINGS AND
DO THINGS SOMETIMES IT&apos;S NOT
THEIR FAULT AND I DON&apos;T KNOW
WHAT HAPPENED ON STATE STREET
THERE BUT I HOPE MY COLLEAGUES
IS CORRECT IN CHARACTERIZE IT
BUT IT COULD HAVE HAPPENED FOR
MANY REASONS AND IN ONE WE HAVE
OLD AND OUTDATED MAPS
.
THANK YOU.
YES, I THANK YOU FOR YOUR
CONCERN.
COUNCIL MEMBER RIMAWI A DID GET
THE INFORMATION THAT I NEEDED
FROM CITY STAFF IN ORDER TO
MAKE THAT STATEMENT.
THE ONLY THING I WOULD ADD IS
THAT YOU KNOW THIS IS NOT THE
END OF THE STORY FOR FOUR
CONTRACTORS WHO HAVE FOUND
THEMSELVES IN A POSITION WHERE
THEY HAVE PREVIOUSLY BEEN
AWARDED CONTRACTS WITH THE CITY
AND NOW ARE FINDING THEMSELVES
ON LESS SURE FOOTING BECAUSE
OF THE WAY THAT WE&apos;RE DOING
BUSINESS NOW.
THERE ARE CERTAINLY CHANGES
THAT CONTRACTORS LIKE JOHNSON,
LIKE OTHERS CAN MAKE TO HOW
THEY DO BUSINESS TO MAKE
THEMSELVES MORE COMPETITIVE
WITH THE WAY THAT WE ARE DOING
BUSINESS NOW HERE AND I WOULD
CERTAINLY ENCOURAGE THEM TO DO
SO.
WE WANT A ROBUST BIDDING
PROCESS HERE AND WE WANT, YOU
KNOW, LOTS OF BIDDERS AND I
THINK IT&apos;S GOING TO TAKE A YEAR
OR TWO BEFORE WE REALLY SEE HOW
THIS ALL SHAKES OUT.
BUT AGAIN, I WOULD ENCOURAGE
YOU TO TAKE A LOOK AT WHERE
JOHNSON WAS DEFICIENT AND THINK
ABOUT MAKING ADJUSTMENTS GOING
FORWARD FOR THE DISCUSSION.
NO NELSON, I JUST WANT TO
EXPRESS APPRECIATION THAT THIS
RECOMMENDATION CAME FROM STAFF
AND THAT NONE OF MY COLLEAGUES
DECIDED TO AT THE TABLE
SUBSTITUTE A DIFFERENT
CONTRACTOR BECAUSE THAT MAKES
ME VERY UNCOMFORTABLE AND THAT
HAS HAPPENED IN THE PAST.
I DO WANT TO APOLOGIZE TO THE
GENTLEMAN HERE WHO HAS BEEN NOW
COMPARED TO WAL-MART AND A
COMPARISON OF I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T
QUITE SEE THE PARALLEL BUT I
APPRECIATE THAT YOU ARE A LOCAL
COMPANY THAT MIGHT NOT
APPRECIATE THAT
CHARACTERIZATION.
I&apos;M GOING TO SUPPORT THIS
CONTRACT.
I DID HAVE A CONVERSATION WITH
A COMMUNITY MEMBER RECENTLY WHO
EXPRESSED AN INTEREST IN
ADVISING US AND PARTICIPATING
AND HELPING WITH CRAFTING THE
MATRIX FOR THIS BIDDING PROCESS
AND HE HAD BEEN LED TO BELIEVE
THAT THERE WAS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR INPUT ON THAT.
I&apos;M STILL I&apos;M STILL LOOKING FOR
INFORMATION AROUND THAT AND I I
WILL SUPPORT THIS CONTRACT
BECAUSE THIS WORK NEEDS TO BE
DONE.
THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION.
I WILL SAY THIS ON THE
SUBSTANCE.
I&apos;LL OBSERVE THAT THIS IS AN
EIGHT VOTE ITEM.
THE WORK THAT IS UP FOR THIS
CONTRACT INCLUDES GATTI&apos;S
AVENUE BETWEEN OBSERVATORY IN
HIGHLAND AND THE HERE IN
PARKWAY AND TUEBINGEN PARKWAY
BETWEEN NIXON ROAD AND TRIVET.
THE WORK THAT THIS CONTRACT
LOOKS TO PERFORM WILL BE A FULL
DEPTH REMOVAL AND REPLACEMENT
OF THE ASPHALT REMOVAL AND
REPLACEMENT OF CONCRETE CURB
AND DRIVEWAY OPENINGS AND
PORTIONS OF DRIVEWAY APPROACH
APRON&apos;S THE WORK WOULD HAVE
PEDESTRIAN CROSSING
IMPROVEMENTS THAT INCLUDE
EXISTING SIDEWALK RAMP
UPGRADES, NEW CROSSWALK
INSTALLATION AND STREET
LIGHTING ENHANCEMENTS, NEW
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION TO FILL A
GAP IN THE SIDEWALK SYSTEM ON
TO BEGIN PARKWAY THE WORK WOULD
PROVIDE FOR THE ADDITION
OF BIKE LANES HERE IN PARKWAY
AND TO BEGIN PARKWAY AND
FINALLY THEIR WORK WOULD
PROVIDE FOR STORMWATER SYSTEM
UPGRADES THAT INCLUDE REPLACING
SUBSTANDARD CURB DRAIN INLETS
AND UNDERGROUND DETENTION.
THE WORK OF COURSE TO DO THIS
IS WITH RESPECT TO THE WINNING
BIDDER PROVIDED IN THE AMOUNT
OF FOUR POINT TWO DOLLARS
MILLION PLUS OR MINUS I THINK
IT IS PERFECTLY REASONABLE TO
CONCLUDE AND ASSUME THAT WERE
THIS MEASURE A FAIL THIS
EVENING THAT IT WOULD BE REBID
NEXT YEAR AND THAT IT WOULD
COST MATERIALLY MORE IN LIGHT
OF ANTICIPATED INFLATION THE
VERY LEAST WHATEVER FOLKS
DISAGREEMENTS ARE ABOUT HOW WE
GOT WHERE WE ARE TODAY.
THE FACT IS THIS WORK NEEDS TO
BE DONE AND THIS IS THE
CHEAPEST IT&apos;S EVER GOING TO BE.
AND SO I WOULD HOPE THAT WE
COULD PUT A DISAGREEMENT TO THE
SIDE AND GET SOME WORK DONE FOR
THE FOLKS WHO USE THESE
IMPORTANT ROADS BOTH ON BIKES
AND ON FOOT AND OF COURSE IN
CARS FOR THE DISCUSSION YOU
HAVE SPOKEN
I KNOW ONE IS
SOUGHT TO POSTPONE IT
.
IT REALLY DEPENDS ON ON HOW
LONG THE POSTPONEMENT LASTS.
THE BOTTOM LINE FROM THE STAFF
PERSPECTIVE IS THE ITEM IN
FRONT OF YOU DOES NOT PASS FROM
OUR PERSPECTIVE THE PROJECT
WOULD BE CANCELED AND REBUILT
NEXT YEAR.
THAT&apos;S THE ONLY OPTION WE HAVE
I GUESS I&apos;LL SAY PEOPLE HAVE
HEARD HEARD YOUR REQUEST FOR
PEOPLE HERE THAT FOR THE
DISCUSSION ROLL CALL PLEASE
START WITH COUNCIL MEMBER
OF DENHA CUSTOMER DENHA.
YES, MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
CUSTOMER YES CUSTOMER NELSON
YES.
CUSTOMER I&apos;M BRIGS YES.
CUSTOMER YES.
THAT&apos;S WHY WE&apos;RE HAYNER
CUSTOMER YES GURSEL YES BECAUSE
WE&apos;RE SELLING GRAND ABSENT THE
MOTION CARRIES
WE NOW COME TO A
PUBLIC HEARING.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO COUNSEL THE
COMMUNITY.
VERY SPECIFIC ITEM ON THE
AGENDA THAT IS TO SAY THE
SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING TO SPEAK AT A
PUBLIC HEARING ONE NEED NOT
HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE.
BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING SPEAKERS
BOTH HERE AND ONLINE HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK IF YOU
ARE COMING IN A LINE WILL
NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY SECONDS
ARE REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME IS EXPIRED IF YOU ARE HERE
IN THE ROOM PLEASE OBSERVE THE
LIGHTS BEFORE YOU WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED IN BOTH CASES
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND SEE THE FLOOR.
IS THERE ANYONE PART OF PUBLIC
CARRY NUMBER ONE RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE THE ANNEXATION OF FIVE
POINT FOUR ACRE PARCEL OF LAND
ASSOCIATED WITH THE VILLAGE
OF ANN ARBOR SITE PLAN FOR CITY
COUNCIL AT TWO SIX ZERO PONTIAC
TRANEL?
IS THERE ANYONE WHO LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
AND OR TWENTY EIGHT HAVE HOME
COURT.
GREAT PLEASURE TO BE HERE WITH
YOU TONIGHT.
YEAH THIS ANNEXATION SHOULD
MOVE FORWARD.
THE VOTE IS A FORMALITY BUT
IT&apos;S NOT TOO SOON TO TALK ABOUT
THE FOUR HUNDRED AND EIGHTY
FOUR HOMES ON WILL THEY BE ALL
ELECTRIC USING HEAT PUMPS THE
EIGHT TO ZERO PLAN DICTATE OR
WILL THEY BURN GAS AT CITIZEN
PARTICIPATION MEETING FOURTEEN
MONTHS TO GO ROBERTSON BROTHERS
SAID THEY WOULD CONSIDER
ELECTRIFICATION.
DO WE KNOW WHAT THEY HAVE
DECIDED A LOT IS AT STAKE HERE
BASED ON INDUSTRY FIGURES FOR
MICHIGAN AVERAGE HOUSEHOLD GAS
CONSUMPTION AND A CONVERSION
FACTOR THAT TAKES INTO ACCOUNT
METHANE EMISSIONS.
YES, BURNING VILLAGE WILL
PRODUCE ABOUT SIXTY FOUR
HUNDRED METRIC TON CO2
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS ANNUALLY
FOR CONTEXT IN A FEW MINUTES
YOU WILL VOTE ON INSTALLING
THREE MEGAWATTS OF SOLAR AND
SEVEN CITY BUILDINGS AT A COST
OF SEVEN POINT FIVE MILLION
DOLLARS VERY WORTHY INVESTMENT
THOSE THREE MEGAWATTS OF SOLAR
WILL BY MICHAEL PREVENT THIRTY
FOUR HUNDRED METRIC TONS OF CO2
EQUIVALENT EMISSIONS ANNUALLY.
THAT&apos;S BASED ON OVERSIZE
EMISSIONS CONVERSION FACTOR AND
A SOLAR EFFICIENCY RATE
OF TWENTY PERCENT SO PREVENTING
THIRTY FOUR HUNDRED TONS OF CO2
WITH SOLAR IS GREAT.
LET&apos;S DO IT.
BUT CONSIDER THIS THE SIXTY
FOUR HUNDRED TONS OF CO2 EXCUSE
ME THE SIXTY FOUR HUNDRED TONS
FROM THE VILLAGE ALONE IF IT
GOES WITH GAS WILL COMPLETELY
WIPE OUT THAT GAIN NOT ONCE BUT
ALMOST TWICE INSTALLING SOLAR
WHEN YOU&apos;RE ALSO APPROVING GAS
BURNING GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS IS
SELF-DEFEATING.
THE NUMBERS DON&apos;T LIE.
HOUSING CAN REDUCE VEHICLE
EMISSIONS BY TURNING COMMUTERS
INTO LOCAL RESIDENTS.
THESE PROJECTS SHOULD ALSO
ELECTRIFY IT&apos;S NOT EITHER OR
BUT LET&apos;S AGAIN DO THE NUMBERS
ASSUME ONE PERSON A DAY NOT
COMMUTING AN AVERAGE ROUND TRIP
DISTANCE OF TWENTY MILES FOR
EVERY ONE OF THESE FOUR HUNDRED
AND EIGHTY FOUR UNIT THAT I
APOLOGIZE FOR AGAIN FOR THE NO
HEAVY MESSAGE HERE THAT&apos;S
NINETY SIX EIGHTY MILES A DAY
OR TWO POINT FOR TWO MILLION
MILES A YEAR AT THIRTY MILES
PER GALLON THE VILLAGE IS
SAVING EIGHTY THOUSAND GALLONS
OF GASOLINE THAT PREVENTS JUST
OVER EVERY METRIC TON CO2 A
YEAR AND COMMUTER EMISSION SO
YOUR COMMUTER SAVINGS ARE JUST
ONE SEGMENT OF THE SIXTY FOUR
ONE HUNDRED TONS YOU EMIT FROM
BURNING GAS IN FURNACES IT
DOESN&apos;T CHANGE THE OVERALL
PICTURE.
I BADLY WANT THE VILLAGE TO
PROCEED BECAUSE AN NEEDS THE
HOUSING BUT IT MUST BE ALL
ELECTRIC.
LOCKWOOD SENIOR LIVING HOLLIGAN
TWENTY ONE ELEVEN PACKARD AND
VIRIDIAN BEFORE IT IF THE
VILLAGE GOES WITH GAS IT WILL
BE FATAL TO OUR ZERO GOALS I
HOPE ARE HIGH LEVEL DISCUSSIONS
GOING ON BETWEEN THE CITY AND
ROBERTSON BROTHERS ABOUT THIS.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
?
LUIS VASQUEZ.
YES.
GREETINGS.
I WOULD LIKE TO ECHO SOME
OF THESE SENTIMENTS AND THE
DEMAND THAT MR. GARBER JUST
BROUGHT TO THE MEETING.
WE SHOULD BE DOING THIS KIND
OF THING WITH ALL NEW
DEVELOPMENT IN ANN ARBOR IN THE
FUTURE.
WE DO NEED SOLAR.
WE DO NEED WIND.
WE DO NEED ALL ANY AND ALL
RESOURCES THAT CAN BE BROUGHT
THERE.
I LIVE IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
I JUST RECENTLY INSTALLED SOLAR
PANELS ON MY HOUSE AT NINETY
NINE BOUGHT AND PAID THE PRICE
.
I THINK DEVELOPERS DO NEED TO
BE PUTTING IN EVERY SINGLE
PROPOSAL IN THE FUTURE IN ANN
ARBOR ALL OF THESE ITEMS ALL
SHOULD BE ELECTRIFIED.
WE SHOULD BE DOING AWAY WITH
GAS WHENEVER THAT OPPORTUNITY
ARISES.
SO LET&apos;S PUT OUR MONEY WHERE
OUR MOUTH IS.
LET&apos;S ALSO MAKE THE DEVELOPERS
PUT THEIR MONEY WHERE THEIR
MOUTH IS AND HELP US GET OUT
OF THIS CLIMATE CRISIS AND HELP
US MEET OUR ZERO GOALS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
, MAYOR.
I DON&apos;T SEE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
.
THANK YOU.
YOU KNOW AND FURTHER THIS
PUBLIC HEARING IS CLOSED.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES OF JUNE
SIX TWENTY TWENTY TWO I HAVE A
MOTION PLEASE TO PROVE THESE
MINUTES MOVE BY COUNCILMAN
GRISWOLD SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER IRA DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF THE MINUTES OF FAVOR OPPOSED
THE MINUTES ARE APPROVED DC ONE
RESOLUTION APPROVED NON
REGISTERED ELECTORS TO BOARDS
AND COMMISSIONS BY COUNCIL
MEMBER ARE SELECTED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER BRINGS DISCUSSION PLEASE
DC ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED WITH EIGHT COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT THUS SATISFYING
THE SEVEN VOTES ACQUIREMENT
MR.
GARRETT IF I OBSERVE THAT THERE
ARE EIGHT COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT VOTING WITH IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE ON EIGHT WHEN I WAS
A ROLL CALL AND YOU DID SORRY
MY APOLOGIES DC TO RESOLUTION
TO AUTHORIZE THE SETTLEMENT
OF MARC JONCOUR AND PAKISTAN.
SO ABOUT SWAYABLE THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR AND KALECK ASPHALT
LLC WASHINGTON COUNTY CIRCUIT
COURT CASE NUMBER TWENTY ONE
ZERO ZERO ZERO EIGHT PALMY ZERO
ZERO ZERO SIX EIGHT FOUR MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER MALAWI SECOND
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC TO
COUNCIL MEMBER I&apos;M SIMPLY I
JUST WANTED TO THANK THE LEGAL
DEPARTMENT FOR HANDLING THIS
FOR COUNCIL TO REVIEW AND
APPROVE ON THIS ISSUE OF OF
OF LOSS AND YOU KNOW AGAIN I
USES AN EXAMPLE HERE WE HAVE A
VERY NOTABLE CONTRACTOR HERE
THAT IS SHARING IN THIS AND SO
TA TA TA THE IDEA THAT EVEN
EVEN THE INDUSTRY LEADERS MAKE
MISTAKES THAT ARE COSTLY SO BUT
AGAIN THE MAIN POINT OF THIS IS
YES, THANK STAFF OR WORK ON
THIS MATTER TO MINIMIZE OUR
EXPOSURE.
THANK YOU DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POST IT IS APPROVED DC THREE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A POWER
PURCHASE AGREEMENT WITH OUR
LOGIC&apos;S NETWORKS INC FOR THE
INSTALLATION OPERATION
MAINTENANCE OF SOLAR AT CITY
FACILITIES AND TO APPROPRIATE
NECESSARY FUNDS THE AMOUNT
OF SEVEN MILLION FOUR HUNDRED
NINETY SIX THOUSAND FOUR
HUNDRED AND TWENTY FOUR DOLLARS
BY THE PRIOR SECOND BY COUNT
THIS DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
THREE COUNCILMAN GRISWOLD I&apos;M
JUST CURIOUS IF THIS WENT
THROUGH THE ENERGY COMMISSION
AND IF IT DID WHY THE ENERGY
COMMISSION COUNCIL LIAISON&apos;S
ARE NOT LISTED AS SPONSORS
?
THE I DON&apos;T KNOW WHETHER I MEAN
I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T BELIEVE IT WENT
TO THE ENERGY COMMISSION IS A
FACILITY ISSUE AND SO I BELIEVE
THAT&apos;S WHY IT DID NOT GO TO THE
ENERGY COMMISSION.
I WAS JUST QUESTIONING THAT
BECAUSE USUALLY WE HAVE MORE
CO-SPONSORS THAN JUST THE
MAYOR.
SO JUST JUST CURIOUS ABOUT IT
IS A WHERE WHEN THINGS ARE
TIMELY THERE AND THERE&apos;S A
DESIRE TO GET IT ON AN AGENDA
AND GET IT UP AND DONE,
SOMETIMES IT COMES TO A COUNCIL
MEMBER.
IT IF I WOULD BE I WOULD
ENCOURAGE COSPONSORSHIP.
IT&apos;S AN AWESOME THING.
OK, WE WILL CO-SPONSOR ALL
RIGHT.
YOU STILL THE FOUR COUNCILMAN
WILL COME ON BOARD OK AND
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH RAISED HER
HAND AND I&apos;LL PUT HER ON.
YOU SAW THAT?
YEAH.
I MEAN I TRUST YOU COMPLETELY.
I&apos;M JUST CURIOUS AS A MATTER
OF PROCEDURE WHY THERE WEREN&apos;T
MORE SPONSORS SO I DIDN&apos;T MEAN
ANYTHING BY IT BUT I&apos;M GLAD
MORE SPONSORS NOW.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
BRITISH.
I WAS JUST ASKING FOR
COSPONSORSHIP BUT IF I HAVE THE
FLOOR FOR FIFTEEN SECONDS I&apos;LL
SAVE AT THE IDEA OF CREATING IS
POWER PURCHASE AGREEMENT IN
ORDER TO MOUNT WAY
MORE SOLAR
THAN WE CAN AFFORD TO INSTALL
OURSELVES.
EXCUSE WHILE ENTER LOGIC&apos;S
BENEFITS FROM TAX FEDERAL TAX
INCENTIVES THAT WE CANNOT
BENEFIT FROM AS A CITY.
THEREFORE THAT&apos;S GOOD FOR THEM
AND THE SOLAR IS GOOD FOR US.
THIS IS A GREAT DEAL AND I&apos;M
THRILLED AGAIN WITH THE
INGENUITY OF THOSE WHO WORK IN
OSSI AND THOSE AROUND THE CITY
ADMINISTRATION WHO SUPPORT
THEM.
THANK REMEMBER A DENHA BY TWO
IT HAS TO BE LISTED AS A
CO-SPONSOR ECHOING ALL
OF COUNCIL MEMBER ADDITIONS
COMMENTS FOR THE DISCUSSION NO
BRIGS AND I LSP ADDED AS
CO-SPONSOR BUT I ALSO WAS
REALLY JUST GOING TO POINT OUT
THAT WE DID DISCUSS THIS AT
ENERGY COMMISSION IN MARCH.
WE WEREN&apos;T FOCUSED SO MUCH ON
THIS PARTICULAR CONTRACT BUT ON
A PROJECT IN GENERAL OF OF
SOLAR AT CITY FACILITIES.
SO ENERGY COMMISSION HAS HAD AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SHOW THAT THIS
PROJECT IS AND WEIGH IN ON IT.
AND SO THERE IS PIE IN THERE AS
WELL.
EXCELLENT FOR THE DISCUSSION.
YOU ALSO HAVE RAMOGI.
THANK YOU.
THIS IS JUST GETTING TO THE
ATTENTION SOME OF THE FUNDING
THAT&apos;S BEING USED FOR THIS
PROJECT IN ADDITION ARPA AND
THAT IS THE COUNTY AND COUNTY
PUBLIC SAFETY MILEAGE AND THE
REBATE THAT WE GET IS A CITY
THAT HAS ITS OWN POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
IT JUST TO ME THERE IS THERE IS
SOME COMING DAYS A DECISION I
GUESS AS IT COMES TO FINDING
FUNDING FOR FOUR PROJECTS AS
SUCH THAT USE THIS COUNTY
PUBLIC SAFETY AS A SOURCE.
I&apos;M NOT SURE IF THE PUBLIC
TRUST OR THE PUBLIC SUPPORT
WILL BE THERE IN A FEW YEARS
WHEN THIS MILLAGE COMES UP FOR
RENEWAL.
AND YOU KNOW, I JUST DON&apos;T I
DON&apos;T KNOW FOR TALKING ABOUT
THAT AS A BODY.
BUT WE&apos;RE GOING TO DO WHEN WHEN
THAT COMES UP.
BUT I KNOW THAT FOR ME THAT&apos;S A
HAS WE WE ARE APPROVING THIS
MONEY AND I THINK THAT
KNOWLEDGE IS AT LEAST FIVE
YEARS IN PERHAPS MORE SO JUST
SOME FOOD FOR THOUGHT ON THAT.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION.
I WOULD AND GRATEFUL COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGGS&apos;S CORRECTION WITH
RESPECT TO THE ENERGY
COMMISSION&apos;S ENGAGEMENT
ENGAGEMENT BY THE ENERGY
COMMISSION SHOULD ALWAYS BE
ASSUMED I SUPPOSE ON MY PART
RATHER THAN THE CONVERSE.
WHAT I WOULD LIKE TO SAY IS HOW
INCREDIBLY EXCITED AND
DELIGHTED I AM THAT THIS
PROJECT IS GOING TO BE MOVING
FORWARD AND I&apos;D LIKE TO EXPRESS
MY TRUE AND EARNEST DEEP
ONGOING THANKS TO DR. STULTS
AND ALL THE PEOPLE THAT WORK
WITH HER AT THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION.
WHAT WE WILL BE DOING HERE IS
INSTALLING THREE MEGAWATTS
WE&apos;LL AFFECTING THE
INSTALLATION OF THREE MEGAWATTS
AT CITY ON PARCELS TAKING A
VAST AMOUNT OF OUR MUNICIPAL
OPERATIONS AND PUTTING THEM
INTO RENEWABLES.
IT IS AN OUTSTANDING PROJECT
THAT EXEMPLIFIES THE PROMISE
AND PLEDGE OF A TWO ZERO AND
I&apos;M JUST SO PLEASED AND PROUD
THAT IT&apos;S GOING FORWARD.
I WOULD SAY JUST BY WAY OF A
CODA IT IS BOTH IT SATISFIES
OUR MORAL IMPERATIVE TO DO
SOMETHING GOOD WITH RESPECT TO
CLIMATE CHANGE AND IT WILL
AFFECT MEANINGFUL COST SAVINGS
GOING FORWARD PARTICULARLY AS
ENERGY PRICES INCREASE FOR THE
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OPPOSED.
IT IS APPROVED WITH EIGHT
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE NOT
SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT
DBE ONE RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE THE ANNEXATION
OF FOUR FIVE POINT FOUR ME TRY
THAT AGAIN DEBATE ON THE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE
ANNEXATION OF A FIVE POINT
SEVEN FOUR ACRE PARCEL OF LAND
ASSOCIATED WITH THE VILLAGE
OF ANN ARBOR SITE PLAN FOR THE
CITY COUNCIL TWO SIX ZERO ZERO
PONTIAC TRAIL MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER RIMAWI DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DV ONE COUNCIL MEMBER RIMAWI
TO THANK MR GUY FOR BEING HERE
TONIGHT AND PUTTING THIS INTO
PERSPECTIVE FOR US AS WE GO
FORWARD WE REALLY NEED TO DO
MORE AS MUCH AS WE CAN WHEN WE
CAN TO EMBED IN OUR POLICIES
AGAIN THE SUSTAINABILITY
EFFORTS I MEAN WE JUST APPROVED
OVER SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS.
IT WAS IT WAS WAS HIGHLIGHTED
EARLIER THEIR ONLY CUT HALF THE
EMISSIONS THAT THIS DEVELOPMENT
LET ALONE SIX ACRES LESS THAN
SIX ACRES IS GOING TO REDUCE.
SO IT FEELS WE&apos;RE IN QUICKSAND
AT ME WHEN IT COMES TO SOME
OF THESE ISSUES AND SO AGAIN,
IT&apos;S GREAT TO HAVE KEN WHO DOES
A LOT OF HOMEWORK.
HE DOES ALL THE MATH HOMEWORK
AND ALSO GOING ANALYSIS AND I
JUST APPRECIATE HAVING MEMBERS
OF THE COMMUNITY WHO DO THAT.
THANK YOU FOR THEIR DISCUSSION
OR FAVOR POSED IT IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE A CLOSED SESSION TODAY
NO MATTER WE DO NOT THANK YOU.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE KIRK&apos;S
REPORT OF COMMUNICATIONS
PETITIONS AND REFERRALS MY
EMOTIONAL PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
KIRK SUPPORT MOVE BY NO DENHA
SECOND MY COUNCILOR IA
DISCUSSION OF THE CLARK REPORT
ON PAPER OPPOSED IT IS
APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS FROM OUR
CITY ATTORNEY.
NO THANK YOU.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
GENERAL TIME PUBLIC COMMENT
GENERAL TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL ON THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
OF PUBLIC COMMENT GENERAL TIME
ONE NEED NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE.
SPEAKERS WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK SO
PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION THE
TIME SPEAKERS HERE WILL NOTE
THE LIGHTS IN FRONT OF THEM
SPEAKERS ON LINE WILL BE
NOTIFIED BY THE CLERK ONE
THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING AND
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED IN
EACH CASE WHEN YOUR TIME&apos;S
EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT PUBLIC
COMMENT FOR CLARIFICATION BE
THE VILLAGE PROJECT IS ACTUALLY
I THINK A TOTAL OF SIXTY FOUR
ACRES, FIVE POINT FOUR ACRES OR
WHATEVER YOU JUST APPROVED
TONIGHT IS JUST A SMALL
ADDITION TO A LARGE PRIOR
ANNEXATION.
SO IT&apos;S A VERY LARGE PROJECT
WITH HUGE CONSEQUENCES FOR OUR
CITY AND FOR AND FOR ITS
CLIMATE GOALS.
THAT WAS MY POINT.
SO THANK YOU AGAIN FOR
LISTENING TO MY COMMENTS.
THANK YOU THAN ANYONE ELSE IN
HOUSE.
I WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK IN PUBLIC
COMMENT
SO CAN I START WITH
THIS PARTICULAR ITEM AGAIN?
BUT LAST MEETING THERE WAS
ANOTHER CALLER THAT BROUGHT
THIS UP THAT BROUGHT THIS EXACT
THING UP.
SO OBVIOUSLY IT&apos;S A MATTER
OF COMMUNITY INTEREST.
LAST WEEK AND OUR LAST MEETING
I SPOKE NELSON&apos;S AND GRISWOLD&apos;S
WORDS THAT WERE IN RESPONSE TO
THIS AND THIS IS HOW IT STARTED
THE CONVERSATION OUT AND THE
CALLER LAST MEETING WHO WHO
SAID IT WASN&apos;T ABOUT LOW-INCOME
PEOPLE THERE&apos;S NO MERIT TO
THOSE CLAIMS AND THAT WAS NOT
TRUE AND THAT&apos;S A FALSE
NARRATIVE.
HERE&apos;S THE REAL DEAL.
HAS THERE BEEN ANY
CONSIDERATION FOR PROVIDING
MORE HOUSING FOR LOW INCOME
CHICKENS?
THERE HAS BEEN CONSIDERABLE
RESEARCH SHOWING THAT
INCREASING DENSITY OF CHICKEN
CAGES AND THIS IS WHAT
CANDIDATE FOR COUNCIL CITY
COUNCIL WARD FOR ELIZABETH
NELSON THINKS PEOPLE LIKE ME
LOW INCOME IS A LOW INCOME
CHICKEN WHO SHOULD LIVE IN
CHICKEN CAGES SO I THINK WORD
FOR WORD FOR VOTERS WOULD LIKE
TO KNOW MORE ABOUT THAT AS WELL
AS YOUR DEFENSE OF HAYNER AND
SPECIFICALLY REPEATEDLY
DEFENDING HIS USE OF HOMOPHOBIC
SLUR AS WELL AS THE N-WORD
MULTIPLE TIMES WHICH YOU SAID
WERE PHONETIC SOUNDS WITHOUT
EUPHEMISM MAYBE I DON&apos;T HAVE
ENOUGH COLLEGE DEGREES.
I&apos;M NOT ONE TO UNDERSTAND THE
HIGH LEVEL WHATEVER AGAIN I
HERE BUT IF YOU COULD PLEASE
USE WORDS WITH FEWER SYLLABLES
AND EXPLAIN THAT TO ME, I WOULD
APPRECIATE IT.
AND THEN A COUNCIL MEMBER I&apos;M
ALWAYS SEEKING REELECTION IN
WARD FIVE IN MY WARD.
I WANT TO KNOW WHAT YOU WHEN
YOU SAID WE&apos;RE TREATING HAYNER
WORSE THAN THE NAZIS THE
LITERAL NAZIS I&apos;M GUESSING AT
THE NUREMBERG TRIALS OR
SOMEWHERE ELSE WE WERE TREATING
OUR WORSE THAN THAT STRIPPING
HIM OF COMMITTEE SCIENCES
COMMITTEE S PAYMENTS.
THIS IS FALSE.
THIS IS NOT TRUE BY THE WAY, WE
WERE NOT TREATING DID NOT TREAT
HANGA WORSE THAN THE NAZIS.
THIS IS ANOTHER FALSE NARRATIVE
BEING PUSHED BY REALLY TUNED
NEXT WEEK WHEN ASKED ABOUT THE
QUARTER MILLION DOLLARS.
THANK
FROM THE GOVERNMENT THANK
YOU TO ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WHO&apos;D LIKE TO SPEAK FOR THE
COMMENT YOU GET MARRIED YOU DO
NOT SEE ANYONE ELSE SEE NO ONE
PUBLIC IS CLOSED.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL COUNCILMAN
GRISWOLD?
YES.
ONE OF THE PRINCIPLES OF VISION
ZERO IS THAT HUMAN LIFE CANNOT
BE ASSIGNED A SPECIFIC VALUE SO
YOU CAN&apos;T BE MAKING DECISIONS
BASED ON THE COST OF A DEATH
VERSUS THE COST.
THE SOLAR PANEL BOTH ARE
EQUALLY IMPORTANT AND SO I&apos;D
LIKE TO ASK STAFF IF THERE IS A
WAY THAT WE CAN MOVE UP THE
IMPROVEMENTS TO THE CROSSWALK
AND PLANT.
I&apos;VE REPEATEDLY HAD
CONSTITUENTS BRING UP CONCERNS
ABOUT THAT CROSSWALK.
IT&apos;S IN THE THIRD WARD.
IT&apos;S NOT EVEN IN MY WARD BUT IT
IS NEAR A SCHOOL SCARLET SCHOOL
AS WELL AS YOUR SCHOOL AND I
DROVE DOWN THERE YESTERDAY AND
IT IS INDEED VERY SCARY.
SO IF STAFF COULD LOOK AT
MOVING THAT UP AND ADDRESSING
THOSE CONCERNS RIGHT AWAY, I
ALSO RECEIVED A NOTICE THAT I
HAVEN&apos;T BEEN ABLE TO CONFIRM
THAT THAT A PEDESTRIAN WAS HIT
ON MILLER ROAD IN EITHER UNDER
OR POORLY LIT CROSSWALK AND IS
IN THE HOSPITAL.
SO IF STAFF COULD ALSO LOOK
INTO THAT, I AM SURE THAT STAFF
IS TRACKING CRASH&apos;S BUT IT
CONCERNS ME WHEN PEOPLE CALL ME
AND LET ME KNOW THIS AND I I
REALLY CAN&apos;T VERIFY IT BUT I AM
CONCERNED.
SO THANK YOU FOR THE
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL.
HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO ADJOURN
LUBI COUNCILOR PIRACICABA
COUNCILOR BRIGGS DISCUSSION
FAVOR POSED.
WE ARE ADJOURNED